arXiv:2202.00443v2 [cs.CL] 1 Jul 2022
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB):
A Dedicated Corpus and Evaluation
Framework for Text Anonymization
Ildikó Pilán∗Pierre Lison∗
Norwegian Computing Center,
Oslo, NorwayNorwegian Computing Center,
Oslo, Norway
Lilja ØvrelidAnthi Papadopoulou
Language Technology Group,
University of Oslo, NorwayLanguage Technology Group,
University of Oslo, Norway
David SánchezMontserrat Batet
Universitat Rovira i Virgili, CYBERCAT,
UNESCO Chair in Data Privacy, SpainUniversitat Rovira i Virgili, CYBERCAT,
UNESCO Chair in Data Privacy, Spain
We present a novel benchmark and associated evaluation metrics for assessing the performance
of text anonymization methods. Text anonymization, defined as the task of editing a text doc-
ument to prevent the disclosure of personal information, currently suffers from a shortage of
privacy-oriented annotated text resources, making it difficult to properly evaluate the level of
privacy protection offered by various anonymization methods. This paper presents TAB (Text
Anonymization Benchmark), a new, open-source annotated corpus developed to address this
shortage. The corpus comprises 1,268 English-language court cases from the European Court of
Human Rights (ECHR) enriched with comprehensive annotations about the personal informa-
tion appearing in each document, including their semantic category, identifier type, confidential
attributes, and co-reference relations. Compared to previous work, the TAB corpus is designed to
go beyond traditional de-identification (which is limited to the detection of predefined semantic
categories), and explicitly marks which text spans ought to be masked in order to conceal the
identity of the person to be protected.
Along with presenting the corpus and its annotation layers, we also propose a set of evaluation
metrics that are specifically tailored towards measuring the performance of text anonymization,
both in terms of privacy protection and utility preservation. We illustrate the use of the bench-
mark and the proposed metrics by assessing the empirical performance of several baseline text
anonymization models. The full corpus along with its privacy-oriented annotation guidelines,
evaluation scripts and baseline models are available on:
https://github.com/NorskRegnesentral/text-anonymization-benchmark
∗ The two first authors contributed equally to this work.1. Introduction
Privacy is a fundamental human right and plays a critical role in the proper functioning
of democratic societies. It is, among others, a key factor enabling the practice of in-
formed and reflective citizenship (Cohen 2012) and protects individuals against threats
such as social control, mass surveillance, censorship, and loss of autonomy and human
dignity (Kasper 2007; Santanen 2019; Finn, Wright, and Friedewald 2013). As such, the
right to privacy is enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (Art. 12)
and is further articulated in multiple national and international legal instruments. This
right to privacy is, however, increasingly challenged by the steadily growing volumes
of online data that may be collected on various individuals. This led to the introduction
of several regulatory standards – most notably the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR) in place in Europe since 2018 (GDPR 2016) – specifically focused on issues
related to data privacy.
Those regulations impose a number of constraints on the storage, processing and
distribution of data including personal information. One of those constraints is that
personal data cannot be distributed to third parties (or even used for other purposes
than the one employed when collecting the data) without a proper legal ground, such as
the explicit and informed consent of the individuals to whom the data refers. However,
obtaining the informed consent of all individuals can be problematic, particularly when
the dataset offers no practical means of contacting those individuals or when the sheer
volume of the data makes it infeasible. This difficulty has far-reaching consequences
on scientific fields such as medicine, psychology, law, and social sciences in general
(Rumbold and Pierscionek 2017; Peloquin et al. 2020), as those fields all heavily depend
on being able to access and scrutinize datasets including personal information, as for
instance electronic health records, interview transcripts or court cases.
An alternative to obtaining the explicit consent of all individuals is to apply
anonymization techniques so that data can no longer be unequivocally associated to the
individuals they refer to. By its very definition and, as stated in the GPDR, the output
of a (successful) anonymization process no longer qualifies as personal data, and can
as such be freely shared to third parties such as research organizations. For traditional,
structured datasets stored in tabular formats (as in relational databases), anonymization
can be enforced through well-established privacy models such as k-anonymity and its
extensions (Samarati 2001; Samarati and Sweeney 1998; Li, Li, and Venkatasubramanian
2007), or differential privacy (Dwork et al. 2006; Dwork and Roth 2014), which all pro-
vide formal privacy guarantees. Masking techniques commonly employed to enforce
those privacy models include data suppression, generalization, noise addition or micro-
aggregation (Hundepool et al. 2012).
The anonymization of unstructured data such as text documents is, however, a
much more challenging task for which many open questions remain (Batet and Sánchez
2018; Lison et al. 2021). Sequence labeling techniques are often employed to detect and
remove specific categories of (named) entities that may enable re-identification, such
as names, phone numbers or addresses. However, because potentially re-identifying
information is unbounded, these tools miss many less conspicuous textual elements
– such as mentions of a person’s physical appearance, current profession or political
opinions – which may contribute to increasing the risk of disclosing the identity of the
person(s) in question. For this reason, the kind of protection these approach achieve go
under the term of de-identification (Ferrández et al. 2012; Dernoncourt et al. 2017; Hintze
2017), i.e., the removal of information that directly identifies a subject, but they do not
qualify as anonymization. As defined by GDPR and similar regulations, anonymization
2Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
requires removing or masking any information that individually/directly or in aggre-
gate/indirectly may re-identify the subject.
As a consequence of this prevalence of de-identification methods in NLP, most
existing evaluation benchmarks related to privacy protection focus on de-identification
rather than anonymization. They may as a result overestimate the actual level of privacy
protection achieved by the methods proposed in the literature.
Contributions
To remedy this situation, this paper presents TAB (Text Anonymization Benchmark), a
corpus designed to evaluate the level of privacy protection offered by text anonymiza-
tion methods. TAB consists of a collection of 1,268 court cases from the European
Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in which each personal information expressed in the
documents is explicitly annotated and associated with various properties, such as its
semantic category, identifier type, confidential attributes and co-reference relations.
Crucially, the annotation process was approached as an actual anonymization task.
In particular, rather than merely annotating text spans of certain semantic types (e.g.,
names, locations, organizations), as done in virtually all previous works (see Section 3),
the annotation was explicitly focused on identifying textual elements that may affect
the disclosure risk of the individual to protect. This annotation process seeks to reflect
the way in which human experts approach manual document sanitization in practice
(Bier et al. 2009). Each text span annotated in the TAB corpus is associated with a
masking decision that expresses whether, according to the annotator, the span ought to
be masked in order to conceal the identity of the person in question. To our knowl-
edge, the TAB corpus constitutes the first publicly available text corpus for evaluating
privacy-protection methods that goes beyond de-identification and specifically targets
the (arguably harder) problem of text anonymization.
In contrast with other privacy-oriented datasets and corpora, which are mostly
framed in the medical domain (Meystre et al. 2010; Aberdeen et al. 2010), the TAB
corpus is based on texts extracted from court cases, which are particularly appealing
for the development and evaluation of general-purpose text anonymization methods.
In particular, while medical records often exhibit a relatively narrow set of personal
identifiers, court cases contain rich and unconstrained biographical descriptions of real
subjects (plaintiffs, witnesses and other parties involved in the legal dispute), along with
detailed depictions of events those subjects have been involved in. These documents
therefore incorporate a wide range of linguistic expressions denoting direct and indirect
identifiers, including names, spatio-temporal markers, demographic traits and other
personal characteristics that may lead to re-identification.
Along with the annotated corpus, we also propose a set of new evaluation met-
rics that assess the level of privacy protection and utility preservation achieved by
anonymization methods more accurately than the standard IR metrics employed in
the literature (see Section 6). In particular, the proposed privacy metrics operate at the
level of entities rather than occurrences, capturing the fact that a personal identifier is
only concealed to the reader if all of its occurrences in a given document are masked.
Those metrics also account for the fact that personal identifiers are not all equally
important – in particular, disclosing a direct identifier such a full person name is a more
serious privacy threat than more indirect information such as the person’s nationality or
gender. Finally, our utility metric considers the information lost as a result of masking
by measuring the amount of information conveyed by masked terms.
3The third and final contribution of this paper is the application of proposed bench-
mark and evaluation metrics to assess the level of privacy protection and utility preser-
vation achieved by several anonymization methods. In particular, we provide baseline
results for three types of approaches:
1. A generic neural model trained for named entity recognition (NER),
2. A privacy-oriented NER-based text de-identification system,
3. Sequence labeling models based on large, pre-trained language models (BERT)
fine-tuned on court cases from the TAB corpus.
The evaluation results obtained with these baseline approaches demonstrate the dif-
ficulty of the text anonymization task, and the limitations of traditional, NER-oriented
de-identification methods in regard to preventing identity disclosure.
Plan
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows:
• Section 2 provides a more detailed definition of the text anonymization problem
and contrasts it with other privacy-enhancing techniques.
• Section 3 summarizes and discusses the limitations of current datasets employed
to evaluate text anonymization methods.
• Section 4 presents our evaluation corpus and the annotation guidelines.
• Section 5 provides a quantitative analysis of the annotation process, including
inter-annotator agreement.
• Section 6 presents the evaluation metrics we propose to measure the disclosure
risks and preserved utility of anonymized texts.
• Section 7 reports and discusses evaluation results for three distinct text
anonymization methods.
• Finally, Section 8 gathers the conclusions and outlines future research directions.
2. Background
Privacy is often defined as the ability for individuals or groups to selectively withhold
information about themselves (Westin 1967). Various regulations have been introduced
to uphold this right to privacy in the digital sphere, and stipulate how personal data
(that is, any information relating to an identified or identifiable person) may be collected
and used. Although privacy regulations such as the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR) in Europe, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) in the United States or
China’s Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL) have important differences in both
scope and implementation, they all rest on the idea that data owners must have a valid
legal ground to be allowed to store, process, or share personal data1 . Datasets including
personal data cannot be distributed to third parties without such a legal ground, as this
would impair the privacy of the data subjects.
1 The most common legal ground is the explicit consent of the data subjects, but data owners can also
invoke other grounds, such as the necessity to process data due to legal or contractual obligations.
4Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
2.1 The anonymization task
Datasets can, however, be anonymized to ensure they can no longer be attributed to
specific individuals, in which case they fall outside the scope of privacy regulations.
Anonymization is the complete and irreversible removal from a dataset of all information
that, directly or indirectly, may lead to an individual being unequivocally re-identified.
Re-identifying information can therefore fall into one of the following categories:
• Direct identifiers correspond to values that are unique to a given individual, and
can therefore directly disclose their identity. Examples of such direct identifiers
include the full name of a person, their cellphone number, address of residence,
email address, social security number, bank account, medical record number, and
more.
• Quasi-identifiers (also called indirect identifiers) correspond to publicly known
information on an individual (i.e., background knowledge) that does not enable
re-identification when considered in isolation, but may do so when combined
with other quasi-identifiers appearing in the same context. For instance, the com-
bination of gender, birth date and postal code can be exploited to unequivocally
identify between 63 and 87% of the U.S. population, due to this information being
public availability int the US Census Data (Golle 2006). Quasi-identifiers encom-
pass a broad range of semantic categories such as demographic characteristics of
the individual, temporal or geographic markers, and their possible types are con-
sidered to be unbounded (Hundepool et al. 2012). Examples of quasi-identifiers
are gender, nationality, name of employer, city of residence, date of birth (or other
dates associated with the individual), personal acquaintances, number of criminal
convictions, places the individual has visited in the past, and many more.
Since removing direct identifiers is not sufficient to preclude re-identification,
anonymization also necessitates to mask (i.e. remove or generalize) quasi-identifiers.
These operations necessarily entail some loss of information or data utility, as part of
the document’s content must be deleted or replaced by less specific text. As the ultimate
objective of anonymization is to produce useful datasets that can be employed by third
parties for purposes such as scientific research, the best anonymization methods are
those that optimize the trade-off between minimizing the disclosure risk and preserving
as much data utility as possible. In fact, because ascertaining which information may
serve as quasi-identifier (either manually or automatically) can be prone to errors or
omissions, one would usually enforce anonymization beyond preventing strict un-
equivocal re-identification, and would aim at reducing the re-identification risk as much
as the utility needs of the anonymized outcomes permit.
Unfortunately, very few legal frameworks have concretized the broad definition
of anonymization as lists of (quasi-)identifiers. The Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act (HIPAA) in the United States (HIPAA 2004) is a example of such
legal framework, which defines 18 types of (quasi-)identifying information that can be
typically found in medical documents. Protecting healthcare data according to such 18
types is considered legally compliant anonymization in the U.S., even though these
types do not constitute, by any means, an exhaustive list of quasi-identifiers. As a
result, HIPAA-based protection should be accounted for de-identification rather than
anonymization. Other regulations such as the GDPR acknowledge this problem and
define a tighter notion of anonymization, but this means that (quasi-)identifying in-
formation needs to be carefully assessed on dataset/document basis. Consequently, the
anonymization of text documents must consider how any textual element may affect
5the disclosure risk, either directly or through semantic inferences, based on background
knowledge assumed to be available to an adversary seeking to uncover the identity of
the individuals referred to in the document (Batet and Sánchez 2018; Lison et al. 2021).
As quasi-identifiers cannot be limited to a fixed set of semantic categories, de-
identification approaches have been criticized for not masking enough information to
prevent re-identification (Batet and Sánchez 2018; Lison et al. 2021). Paradoxically, they
may also remove too much information. De-identification methods indeed systematically
mask all occurrences of a given semantic type (such as date or location) without regard
to their actual impact on the disclosure risk of the individual to be protected. As
demonstrated in the empirical analysis of the TAB corpus (see Section 5), a substantial
proportion of entities falling into the categories considered by de-identification methods
may actually be left in clear text without noticeable impact on the disclosure risk.
2.2 Text anonymization techniques
Approaches to text anonymization can be divided into two independent families. On
the one hand, NLP approaches often rely on sequence labeling and formalize this task
as a variant of Named Entity Recognition (NER) (Chiu and Nichols 2016; Lample et al.
2016), where the entities to detect correspond to personal identifiers. Most existing work
in this area has been focused on the medical domain, for which the existence of the
HIPAA safe harbor rules facilitates and standardizes the task. Indeed, PHI markers
can be detected using rule-based and machine learning-based methods, either alone
or in combination (Sweeney 1996; Neamatullah et al. 2008; Yang and Garibaldi 2015;
Yogarajan, Mayo, and Pfahringer 2018). Various neural architectures have also been
proposed for this task and have been shown to achieve state-of-the-art performance,
using e.g. recurrent neural networks with character embeddings (Dernoncourt et al.
2017; Liu et al. 2017) or bidirectional transformers (Johnson, Bulgarelli, and Pollard
2020). Section 3 describes in more details the corpora and evaluation methodologies
that are employed in clinical NLP to perform such de-identification.
The second type of text anonymization methods relies on on privacy-preserving
data publishing (PPDP). In contrast to NLP approaches, PPDP methods (Chakaravarthy
et al. 2008; Cumby and Ghani 2011; Anandan et al. 2012; Sánchez and Batet 2016,
2017) operate with an explicit account of disclosure risk and anonymize documents by
enforcing a privacy model. As a result, PPDP approaches are able consider any term
that may re-identify a certain entity to protect (a human subject or an organization),
either individually for direct identifiers (such as the person’s name or a passport) or in
aggregate for quasi-identifiers (such as the combination of age, profession and postal
code). This process will often depend on the background knowledge that is assumed
to be available to an adversary – for instance, the C-sanitize paradigm of (Sánchez and
Batet 2016, 2017) operates on the assumption that this background knowledge is the set
of all web pages that are publicly available and indexed through search engines. PPDP
approaches then frame the text anonymization problem as a search for the minimal set
of masking operations (such as data suppression or generalization) on the document to
ensure the requirements derived from the privacy model are fulfilled. Although these
methods offer more formal and robust privacy guarantees than those based on sequence
labeling, they also have a number of limitations and scalability issues (Lison et al. 2021).
In particular, PPDP approaches typically reduce documents to collections of terms and
thereby ignore how terms are influenced by their context of occurrence.
A common challenge faced by researchers working on text anonymization is the
lack of a standard benchmark to evaluate and compare those anonymization methods.
6Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
A widespread approach is to rely on human annotators to manually mark predefined
types of personal information in a collection of documents, and then compare the
system output with human annotations using IR-based metrics such as precision, recall
and F1 score.
2.3 Relation to other privacy-enhancing tasks
Privacy regulations such as GDPR, CCPA, PIPL or even HIPAA primarily focus on
preventing identity disclosure, which occurs when a record (or, in the case of text
anonymization, a document) in the anonymized dataset can be linked to a specific
individual. However, personal confidential information may also be disclosed without
re-identification. This phenomenon, called attribute disclosure, occurs when the released
data can be exploited to unequivocally infer the value of a confidential attribute (e.g. a
criminal conviction) for a group of anonymized individuals with some shared character-
istics. For instance, if all court cases related to individuals of a particular nationality end
up with the same court verdict, we can infer the verdict of any person of that nationality
(provided we know the presence of that person in the dataset) even though we are
unable to link each individual with a specific court case.
This problem of attribute disclosure has been investigated in several NLP stud-
ies, in particular for the purpose of obfuscating documents to conceal sensitive social
categories such as gender (Reddy and Knight 2016) or race (Blodgett, Green, and
O’Connor 2016). Recent deep learning approaches have sought to transform latent
text representations (word or document embeddings) to protect confidential attributes
using adversarial learning (Elazar and Goldberg 2018; Barrett et al. 2019), reinforcement
learning (Mosallanezhad, Beigi, and Liu 2019) or encryption (Huang et al. 2020). Those
methods, however, operate at the level of latent vector representations and do not
modify the texts themselves. One notable exception is the text rewriting approach of
(Xu et al. 2019) which edits the texts using back-translations combined with adversarial
training and approximate fairness risk.
Several authors (Li, Baldwin, and Cohn 2018; Fernandes, Dras, and McIver 2019;
Feyisetan, Diethe, and Drake 2019) have also proposed privacy-preserving methods
that focus on obfuscating the author(s) of the document rather than protecting the
privacy of the individuals referred to in the text. The authorship of a document and
the author’s attributes are inferred from the linguistic and stylistic properties of the
text rather than the document’s topic or the text semantics. Those approaches rely on
distorting the distribution of words by inserting differentially private noise to the word
embeddings (Fernandes, Dras, and McIver 2019; Feyisetan, Diethe, and Drake 2019) or
constraining the embeddings to prevent disclosing certain attributes (Li, Baldwin, and
Cohn 2018). The outputs of those systems are therefore typically distorted bag-of-words
or distributed word representations rather than actual documents.
Differential privacy (Dwork et al. 2006; Dwork and Roth 2014) has also been em-
ployed for other privacy-oriented NLP tasks such as producing synthetic texts (Bom-
masani et al. 2019), producing text transformations able to resist membership inference
attacks2 (Krishna, Gupta, and Dupuy 2021; Habernal 2021) or learning deep learning
models with privacy guarantees (McMahan et al. 2017; Li et al. 2021).
2 Membership Inference Attacks aim to identify whether a data sample (such as a text) was part of the
training set employed for learning a machine learning model (Shokri et al. 2017).
7Those approaches all provide valuable privacy-enhancing techniques that make
it possible to create texts (or text representations) that are oblivious to certain demo-
graphic attributes or hide the identity of the author. However, they seek to address a
different task than text anonymization, which focuses on preventing identity disclosure
by masking the personal identifiers expressed in the text. In particular, the objective of
text anonymization is to produce a modified version of a document where re-identifying
information is masked through suppressions and generalizations of text spans, but
without altering the parts of the document that do not correspond to (direct or indirect)
personal identifiers.
This need to preserve the semantic content conveyed in the text is an important
prerequisite for most types of data releases. For instance, medical records in which the
clinical observations have been randomly altered are of little use to medical researchers,
who need a guarantee that the anonymization preserves the “truthfulness” of the initial
record, in this case the description of medical symptoms and resulting diagnosis. For in-
stance, a medical condition such as “bronchitis” may be replaced/masked in a medical
record by a generalization such as “respiratory disease”, but not by any other disease
(being respiratory or not), because the latter may mislead medical researchers. The same
argument applies for court cases where it is desirable to protect the identity of certain
individuals (plaintiffs, witnesses, victims), but where the actual judgment, even though
it could be made less specific, should not be modified, lest the resulting text becomes
useless for legal professionals. In other words, the masking process for those types of
data releases should be non-perturbative: each masked term should strictly encompass
a subset of the semantics of the original term, which implies that each masked term
must be either concealed or replaced by generalizations. Although there exists a number
of differentially-private text transformation methods such as ADePT (Krishna, Gupta,
and Dupuy 2021) that seek to minimize the amount of perturbations introduced on
certain properties of the text, such as the ability to determine the general intent of an
utterance, they do effectively produce new texts (or text representations) rather than
truthful, masked versions of existing documents.
3. Related benchmarks
3.1 Medical datasets
Most existing NLP studies on text anonymization have been performed in the area
of clinical NLP, where the goal is to detect PHI entities in medical texts (Meystre
et al. 2010; Aberdeen et al. 2010). Several shared tasks have contributed to increased
activity within this research area, in particular through the release of evaluation datasets
for text anonymization manually annotated with PHIs. Most notable are the 2014
i2b2/UTHealth shared task (Stubbs and Uzuner 2015) and the 2016 CEGS N-GRID
shared task (Stubbs, Filannino, and Uzuner 2017).
The 2014 i2b2/UTHealth shared task (Stubbs and Uzuner 2015) is composed of
patient medical records annotated for an extended set of PHI categories. The train-
ing/evaluation dataset contains 1,304 longitudinal medical records describing a total
of 296 patients. The authors applied what they termed a "risk-averse interpretation
of the HIPAA guidelines" which expanded on the set of categories to include indirect
identifiers that could be used in combination to identify patients. These include names
of hospitals, doctors and nurses, patient’s professions, as well as various expressions
related to dates, age, and locations. They further adopted a hierarchical annotation
scheme with fine-grained sub-categories indicating e.g., identification numbers (social
8Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
security number, medical record number, etc) or parts of a location (room number, hos-
pital department, street name). The annotation effort also focused on the generation of
surrogate terms, a process which was largely guided by the fine-grained categorization.
The annotation was performed by two annotators in parallel followed by an adjudica-
tion phase. Inter-annotator agreement was measured both at the entity and token level
and the authors report a (micro) F1 of 0.89 and 0.93 for entity and token level agreement,
respectively. Current state-of-the-art performance on this dataset is achieved with fine-
tuned pre-trained transformer language models such as BERT (Devlin et al. 2018) and
its domain-specific variants, SciBERT (Beltagy, Lo, and Cohan 2019) and BioBERT (Lee
et al. 2020), to achieve over 0.98 F1 score (Johnson, Bulgarelli, and Pollard 2020).
In a follow-up to the 2014 task, the 2016 CEGS N-GRID shared task (Stubbs, Fi-
lannino, and Uzuner 2017) released a training and evaluation dataset based on psychi-
atric intake records, which are particularly challenging to de-identify due to a higher
density of PHIs. The aim of this shared task was to evaluate the extent to which exist-
ing de-identification systems generalize to new clinical domains. The annotation was
performed over 1,000 intake notes using the annotation guidelines developed for the
2014 i2b2/UTHealth shared task described above. For this dataset, the inter-annotator
agreement was measured at an entity level F1 of 0.85 and token level F1 of 0.91.
Some annotation efforts are also geared towards de-identification for languages
other than English. For Swedish, Velupillai et al. (2009); Alfalahi, Brissman, and Dalianis
(2012) present efforts to collect and standardize annotated clinical notes. For Spanish,
a recently held shared task on clinical de-identification released a synthetic Spanish-
language dataset (Marimon et al. 2019).
3.2 Non-medical datasets
Evaluation datasets for text anonymization outside the medical domain are usually
small, shallowly annotated (focusing on de-identification rather than anonymization),
already (pseudo)anonymized and/or not public. Unsurprisingly, the main reason for
the latter is because of privacy concerns: an ideal evaluation dataset for text anonymiza-
tion should relate to real-world individuals, and would therefore contain identifying
and confidential personal features.
A common source for evaluation data are personal emails. The Enron email dataset3
is probably the most well-known, consisting of 0.5 million messages from 150 em-
ployees of Enron. A similar dataset, annotated w.r.t. a set of predefined identifying
information types (names, addresses, organizations, etc.), was presented in Medlock
(2006). Eder, Krieg-Holz, and Hahn (2020) also present a dataset consisting of NER-
oriented annotated German e-mails. Even though these datasets are publicly available,
they bear an important limitation: due to the intrinsically sensitive nature of the original
data, the released data have been already subjected to (pseudo)anonymization. This
makes the evaluation carried out on these data less realistic, because the most disclosive
information has been already redacted or pseudoanonymized.
Other privacy-oriented corpora that are also limited in some way include a large
corpus of SMS messages, already subjected to anonymization based on predefined dic-
tionaries of sensitive terms (Patel et al. 2013), a non-released NER-oriented Portuguese-
English dataset of legal documents (Bick and Barreiro 2015) or recently released
pseudonymized Swedish learner corpus with restricted access (Megyesi et al. 2018).
3 https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~enron/
9More recently, Jensen, Zhang, and Plank (2021) presented an annotated dataset
based on job postings from StackOverflow. The dataset is large and openly available, but
the text is semi-structured (rather than being plain text) and the annotation is limited to
the NER-oriented categories: organization, location, contact, name, and profession.
As an alternative to using private or personal data, several approaches within the
PPDP paradigm have employed Wikipedia biographies for evaluation purposes (Chow,
Golle, and Staddon 2008; Staddon, Golle, and Zimny 2007; Sánchez and Batet 2016,
2017; Lison et al. 2021; Hassan, Sánchez, and Domingo-Ferrer 2021; Hathurusinghe,
Nejadgholi, and Bolic 2021). Key motivations for this choice are the public availability
of the texts (therefore not subjected to privacy issues), and the high density and large
variety of (quasi-)identifying information they contain. Compared to the approaches
discussed so far, which focus on NER-oriented annotations and de-identification rather
than anonymization, these works operate on all terms that may cause direct or indirect
re-identification of the individual to be protected, regardless of their semantic type.
These privacy-oriented annotations are more accurate than NER-based annotations
(Lison et al. 2021), and better capture the way in which manual document redaction
is done by human experts (Bier et al. 2009). However, annotations of text spans are
just binary (either sensitive or not), and neither describe the entity type nor the type
of incurred risk (identity or attribute disclosure). Moreover, those approaches only
annotate a small collection of biographies (from 5 to 50), many of them without clear
annotation guidelines or public release of the annotations – although see (Lison et al.
2021; Hassan, Sánchez, and Domingo-Ferrer 2021) for two exceptions.
Even though Wikipedia biographies are undeniably useful to evaluate the effec-
tiveness of domain-independent anonymization methods, they are also highly copied
texts: just searching for some exact extracts of text from Wikipedia articles in a web
search engine returns many sources that have exactly reproduced such text. This may
give the impression that some (very specific) information is more common that what it
really is, because it is included and referred in many (copied) sources. This hampers the
assessments made by distributional and information-theoretic anonymization methods
(Chow, Golle, and Staddon 2008; Anandan and Clifton 2011; Sánchez, Batet, and Viejo
2013; Sánchez and Batet 2016), which specifically rely on web-scale statistics to assess
disclosure risks. Furthermore, the fact that Wikipedia biographies are limited to public
or “notable” personalities also introduces a substantial bias in the evaluation process,
as it is often much easier to extract biographical details about those personalities than
for average, non-public individuals.
Large datasets containing personal and privacy-sensitive documents have also been
created to evaluate data loss prevention (DLP) methods (Vartanian and Shabtai 2014;
Hart, Manadhata, and Johnson 2011; Trieu et al. 2017). Even though DLP methods do
assess the sensitivity of the information contained in textual documents, they only do
it at the document level. Their goal is to design metrics to assess the sensitivity of a
document and, from this, derive policies that can prevent or mitigate the effects of
possible data leakages. Consistently, evaluation datasets for DLP just tag documents
as sensitive or non-sensitive (or, at most, into several degrees of sensitivity); therefore,
these annotations are not useful to properly evaluate anonymization methods. More-
over, using these documents as source to create datasets for anonymization methods
(by manually annotating their contents) may be ethically questionable, as many of those
10Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
documents originate from data leakages such as Wikileaks4 or confidential archives
leaked by the whistleblower Edward Snowden 5 .
4. The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
The previous section highlighted two important limitations of current datasets for pri-
vacy evaluation of text data, namely that most of them are (1) restricted to clinical texts
and (2) largely focus on NER-based de-identification rather than anonymization. More-
over, a common factor of previous annotation efforts is that each and every document in
the dataset exclusively describes a single individual, such as a electronic health record
associated to a specific patient. This setup considerably simplifies the anonymization
process (both for manual annotations and when using automated methods), as one can
assume that all the entities and facts mentioned in the document are directly related to
the individual to protect. However, it also makes the task less realistic, as many types of
text documents do refer to multiple individuals.
Considering the limitations of the above described datasets, we searched for a
document collection satisfying the following criteria:
• It should contain rich, detailed documents in plain text format, rather than semi-
structured data or short texts.
• It should contain generic personal information about real-world individuals.
This personal information should encompass a large variety of direct and quasi-
identifiers (not limited to predefined categories), including biographical details,
demographic traits and depiction of events featuring temporal and geographic
markers.
• It should be based on public text sources that can be freely re-distributed, and
should not have been subjected to any prior (pseudo)anonymization. It should
also relate to a broad spectrum of individuals, and not only public figures, as as
the case for e.g. Wikipedia.
The TAB corpus presented in this paper satisfies the above criteria. The corpus is
based on court cases from the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), which is an
international court of the Council of Europe6 . Its purpose is to interpret the European
Convention on Human Rights, an international convention adopted by the Council of
Europe in 1950 and designed to protect human rights and political freedoms across
Europe (Gearty 1993). The court rules on applications relating to breaches of the rights
enumerated in the Convention. As of 2020, the court disposes judicially of about 40,000
applications every year, covering cases originating from any of the 47 countries that are
part of the Council of Europe and have ratified the Convention. The court’s working
languages are English and French, and all court cases are publicly available in full-text
on the court website. Their publication has received the consent of the applicants7 .
4 https://www.wikileaks.org/
5 https://github.com/iamcryptoki/snowden-archive
6 See https://www.echr.coe.int/
7 By default, documents in proceedings before the Court are public, and applicants wishing to bring a case
before the Court are informed of this requirement. It is, however, possible to submit a request for
anonymity, either along with the application or retroactively, cf. Rules of Court, Rules 33 and 47.
114.1 Preprocessing
The selection of court cases to include in the TAB corpus followed a number of criteria.
First, we only included English-language judgments in the corpus, leaving aside the
French-language judgments. We ignored judgments that had been anonymized prior to
publication (which happens for especially sensitive cases, among others when the case
involves children), and also filtered out judgments released after 2018 (as applicants
have the possibility to submit to the Court retroactive requests to anonymize the court
proceedings). Furthermore, we only included judgments from the “Grand Chamber”
and ”Chamber”, leaving aside smaller judgments decided in Committees or Commis-
sions, that often contain fewer and less interesting personal identifiers.
ECHR court cases are typically divided in 5 parts:
1. An introduction stating the alleged breach (by a contracting state) of at least one
of the rights enumerated in the Convention.
2. A “Statement of Facts’ structured as a list of factual elements (without legal
arguments) that underpin the application.
3. A “Legal Framework“ enumerating national and international legal material
(laws, previous judgments, jurisprudence) relevant to the case.
4. A section entitled “The Law” which details the legal arguments put forwards by
each party (applicants vs. government representatives), along with the reasoning
followed by the Court.
5. A conclusion stating the final judgment of the Court.
Most personal identifiers are typically found in the two first sections (Introduction
and Statement of Facts). As a consequence, the annotation was restricted to those two
sections, leaving aside the parts related to the legal interpretation.
4.2 Annotation process
The corpus was annotated by twelve university students at the Faculty of Law of the
University of Oslo over a two-month period. The annotation was conducted using a
web interface8 , and students received financial remuneration for their work. The anno-
tators were given a detailed set of annotation guidelines (see Appendix). All annotators
completed an initial training phase where they were instructed to annotate the same
court cases, compare their outputs, and resolve any potential disagreements on the basis
of the guidelines.
The annotators are provided with the Introduction and Statement of Facts extracted
from an ECHR court case, together with the name of a specific individual that should be
protected in this document (see Fig. 1 for an example). The annotation process is thus
focused on concealing the identity of one single person. Personal information pertaining
to other individuals mentioned in the case should only be masked insofar they provide
indirect cues that may enable the re-identification of the main person to protect.
The annotators are instructed to first read through the entire document and go
through the following steps:
• Step 1 focuses on determining all phrases that contain personal information and
classify them according to their semantic type.
8 See https://www.tagtog.net/
12Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
• Step 2 then looks at each entity mention marked in Step 1 and determines for each
whether it can be kept in clear text or needs to be masked to conceal the identity
of the person to protect – and in this latter case, whether it corresponds to a direct
identifier or a quasi-identifier.
• Step 3 enriches the entity mentions with a second attribute indicating whether
they correspond to confidential information (such as religious beliefs, ethnicity or
health data).
• Step 4 connects entity mentions that relate to the same underlying entity but do
not have the same string value (such as a person name that may be written with
or without the first name).
• Finally, in Step 5, the annotations undergo a last process of quality control where
pairs of annotators review each other’s documents to ensure that the identity of
the person to protect is properly concealed.
We detail each of these five steps below, and then describe the subsequent quality
reviews that are applied to the annotation outputs (Section 4.2). To ensure that the
annotators had a good understanding of each court case and the background knowledge
surrounding it, the annotators were assigned court cases for which the national lan-
guage of the country accused of human rights violations was familiar to the annotator.
For instance, court cases filed against Germany were annotated by law students with
a working knowledge of German, such that they could more easily understand the
general context behind the case.
In total, the students used a total of around 800 hours on this annotation work
(excluding the hours devoted to training and status meetings), leading to an average
of 22 minutes to annotate and quality-check a single court case.
Step 1: Entity Detection
In this step of the annotation process, the annotators are instructed to mark all text spans
denoting some type of personal information and assign them to a semantic class. While
this task is superficially similar to classical named entity annotation, the inventory of
categories differs somewhat from commonly used NER schemes and is not restricted to
proper nouns. In particular, entities providing demographic information will often be
common nouns or even adjectives.
The entity types are the following:
PERSON Names of people, including nicknames/aliases, usernames and initials.
CODE Numbers and identification codes, such as social security numbers, phone num-
bers, passport numbers or license plates
LOC Places and locations, such as cities, areas, countries, addresses, named infrastruc-
tures etc.
ORG Names of organizations, such as public and private companies, schools, uni-
versities, public institutions, prisons, healthcare institutions, non-governmental
organizations, churches, etc
DEM Demographic attributes of a person, such as native language, descent, heritage,
ethnicity, job titles, ranks, education,physical descriptions, diagnosis, birthmarks,
ages
DATETIME Description of a specific date (e.g. October 3, 2018), time (e.g. 9:48 AM) or
duration (e.g. 18 years).
QUANTITY Description of a meaningful quantity, e.g. percentages or monetary values.
13MISC Every other type of personal information associated (directly or indirectly) to an
individual and that does not belong to the categories above.
In this stage the annotators were instructed to mark all entities according to their
type, without taking into account whether those entities need to be masked to protect
the individual in question9 . Country names were labeled LOC when referring to the
geographical location, but ORG when referring to the government of that country or its
representatives.
To make the annotation process as effective as possible, the documents were pro-
vided to the annotators with a pre-annotation produced by combining an off-the-shelf
named entity recognition tool (spaCy) with a set of handcrafted heuristics tailored for
the recognition of common entities such as dates, codes and quantities. Annotators
were instructed to carefully inspect the pre-annotations and validate, revise or remove
them in accordance with the annotation guidelines. Statistical analysis of the resulting
annotations showed that the annotators did substantial edits on the pre-annotations,
with around 24 % of all entity mentions that were either corrected from the initial pre-
annotations or new entities added manually by the annotator.
Step 2: Masking
In the second phase of the annotation, the annotators were instructed to determine
whether the entity mention ought to be masked to protect the individual in question.
If the entity mention is to be masked, we further distinguish between direct identifiers,
which can unequivocally lead to re-identification, and quasi-identifiers, which can lead
to the re-identification of the individual to protect when combined with other quasi-
identifiers along with background knowledge.
For re-identification to be possible, quasi-identifiers must refer to some personal in-
formation that can be seen as potential “publicly available knowledge” — i.e. something
that we can expect that an external person may already know about the individual or
may be able to infer through legal means —, and the combination of quasi-identifying
information should be enough to re-identify the individual with no or low ambiguity.
The annotators were explicitly instructed to assess whether it is likely that a motivated
adversary could, based on public knowledge, gain access to the quasi-identifying values
of the individual to be protected.
As a rule of thumb, immutable personal attributes (e.g., date of birth, gender or
ethnicity) of an individual that can be known by external entities should be considered
quasi-identifiers. Circumstantial attributes (such as the date or location of a given event
mentioned in the court case) may be considered quasi-identifiers or not according to
the chance that external entities may obtain knowledge about such information. For
instance, the usual residence of a person or the date of a hospital admission can be
expected to be known by third parties, while the exact time a person went to the
grocery store will typically not. The annotators were also instructed to consider as public
knowledge any information that can typically be found on the web.10
9 The only exceptions from this rule were entities indicating the profession or title of the legal professionals
involved in the case (for instance solicitor, legal adviser, lawyer, etc.) and parts of generic legal references
(such as the year a particular law was passed or published).
10 There is, however, one important exception to this rule of viewing all web content as “public
knowledge”. The annotators were indeed instructed to regard the actual text of the court case as not part
of public knowledge, although it is in practice available on the ECHR website and in some online legal
databases. Without this exception, the anonymization process would become meaningless, as one can
14Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
Step 3: Confidential attributes
Annotators were in addition instructed to indicate whether an entity describes a con-
fidential attribute, i.e. conveying information that, if disclosed, could harm or could
be a source of discrimination for the individual to protect. Due to their confidential
nature, those attributes are typically not known by external entities, and are therefore
rarely seen as quasi-identifiers. They are, however, important to consider if one wishes
to prevent attribute disclosure (see Section 2.3).
The categories of confidential attributes follow the “special categories of personal
data” defined in the GDPR11 :
BELIEF Religious or philosophical beliefs
POLITICS Political opinions, trade union membership
SEX Sexual orientation or sex life
ETHNIC Racial or ethnic origin
HEALTH Health, genetic and biometric data. This includes sensitive health-related
habits, such as substance abuse
NOT_CONFIDENTIAL Not confidential information (most entities)
Figure 1 illustrates an example of ECHR court case displayed on the annotation
interface.
Step 4: Entity linking
The protection of a nominal entity can only succeed if all mentions of this entity within
the document are duly masked. However, the surface form of those mentions may vary,
as for e.g. John Smith and Mr Smith, or California Institute of Technology and CalTech. To
this end, we provide explicit co-reference relations between mentions referring to the
same underlying entity. Annotators were instructed to explicitly mark relations between
all mentions of the same entity within a given document. Entities with identical string
values (e.g. John Smith and John Smith) were by default assumed to refer to the same
entity, but this default choice could be overridden by the annotator.
It should be noted that the relations between entity mentions only encompass a
relatively small subset of the relations typically considered in co-reference resolution
(Lee et al. 2017; Sukthanker et al. 2020). In particular, anaphoric expressions such as
pronouns and possessive adjectives are not part of this annotation process, as they
reveal little information about the individual to protect (with the possible exception
of gender) and do not typically need to be masked. For instance, although John Smith
and he may both refer to the same person, only the first expression is likely to increase
the re-identification risk, while the second expression only indicates that the person is
male. The entity linking step is therefore in practice limited to nominal and adjectival
phrases that convey roughly the same information about their underlying entities and
need to be considered as part of the masking process.
easily link back the anonymized text with its original version on the ECHR website (for instance by
searching for the presence of a few phrases occurring in the text) and thereby re-identify the person, as
demonstrated in (Weitzenboeck et al. 2022).
11 https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/reform/
rules-business-and-organisations/legal-grounds-processing-data/
sensitive-data/what-personal-data-considered-sensitive_en
15Task: Annotate the document to anonymise the following person: Eylip Kaya
PROCEDURE
1. The case originated in an application (no. @7582104i) against the 5HSXEOLFof Turkey lodged with the Court under Article 34 of
the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms ("the Convention") by a urkis national, Mr
Eyp Kaya ("the applicant"), on (26$Sril 2004.
2. The applicant was represented by [Mr M. Timu,, a lawyer practising in Van. The urkish Government ('"the Government") were
represented by their Agent.
3. On 18 September 2007 the Court decided to give notice of the application to the Government. It also decided to examine the
merits of the application at the same time as its admissibility (Article 29 § 3).
THE FACTS
I. THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE CASE
1. The applicant was born in [1980 and lives in ~ .
2. On 9 August 2000 the applicant was admitted to the military service.
applicant was discharged from the military as he was no longer eligible for service.
Figure 1
Example of court case displayed on the annotation interface (TagTog). The person to protect is
specified in the task box on the top of the page. The text to annotate consists of the Introduction
and Statement of Facts of the court case. Entities annotated during Step 1 are color-highlighted.
Steps 2 and 3 are then carried out via a pop-up window (not shown on the Figure).
Step 5: Quality reviews
The final annotation phase consisted of a round of quality reviews for a subset of the
annotated documents. Students were paired up for this purpose and were instructed to
carefully review each other’s annotations and assess whether the identity of the person
specified in the anonymization task was sufficiently protected. To facilitate this review
process, we generated a masked version for each annotated document, where all entities
marked as direct or quasi-identifiers requiring masking were replaced by ’*’ symbols as
shown in Figure 2.
In case of doubt, students were instructed to validate the masking decisions by
checking whether they could re-identify the person mentioned in the court case based
on information available on the web.
4.3 Corpus release
We release the corpus in a standoff JSON format. Each annotated text span is associated
with the annotator name, its offset in the text, a semantic category, the identifier type
16Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
The applicant, Dr Royce Darnell, who was born in 1929, has been unemployed since the (frent Regional Health I
-
-~uthority ("the RHA") terminated his employment as a consultant microbiologist and Directon of the Public Health
~
Laboraloryj in (Q:erb~. This case concerns the length of time that proceedings relating to this dismissal have taken.
The applicant, ,;. . ******""1, who was born in ********, has been unemployed since the ******** terminated his
employment as a ******** and Director of the ******** in ********. This case concerns the length of time that
proceedings relating to this dismissal have taken.
Figure 2
Documents before (top) and after (bottom) entity masking based on annotator decisions. In this
particular case, one entity was marked as direct identifier (“Dr Royce Darnell“), five entities as
quasi-identifiers, and one entity (“Director”) was left in clear text.
(direct, quasi, or no need to mask), possible confidential attributes, and an unique
identifier for the entity it refers to (based on the relations from Step 4).12
Even though the whole corpus can be used for evaluation purposes, we defined
a training set (80% of unique court cases), a development (10%) and a test set (10%),
so that the corpus may also be used to build supervised anonymization models. As
we have a varying number of annotators for each case, the corpus was divided as to
maximize the proportion of court cases with multiple annotators in the development
and test sets. Those two sets also only include court cases where at least one annotation
was quality-reviewed as described above. Table 1 provides some general statistics over
the corpus split.
Table 1
Statistics over the data splits.
Split# docs# doc annotations# reviewed annotationsavg. # annotators
train
dev
test1,014
127
1271,112
541
555328
313
3151.10
4.26
4.37
Text anonymization is a task that is not restricted to a single solution, at least
when the text contains quasi-identifiers (Lison et al. 2021). Indeed, it is precisely the
combination of quasi-identifiers that may create a privacy hazard, and there may be
several alternative sets of masking operations that may be applied on those quasi-
identifiers to reduce the disclosure risk below an acceptable threshold. In contrast to the
bulk of NLP resources where multiple annotations are often adjudicated manually or
automatically (Boisen et al. 2000), the TAB corpus therefore retains the masking choices
of each annotator separately, without merging them into a single layer.
The appendix contains a full example of a document annotated with entities and
masking decisions.
12 The data, its documentation and the annotation guidelines are available at
http://cleanup.nr.no/tab.html.
175. Data analysis
5.1 General statistics
Table 2 presents a quantitative overview of the annotated corpus. As Table 2 shows,
about 22% of cases have been annotated by more than one annotator, with 163 cases
having three or more annotators. The portion of quality reviewed document annotations
according to the procedure described in Section 4.2 was 43%. Documents were 1442
tokens long on average. The table also distinguishes between the number of distinct en-
tities and the number of mentions, as an entity (for instance a person or an organization)
may be mentioned several times through a given document.
Table 2
General statistics.
Number of distinct court cases (documents):
Number of distinct document annotations:
Number of documents with multiple annotators:
Number of document annotations reviewed for quality by
another annotator:
Number of (distinct) annotated entities:
Number of annotated entity mentions:
Total number of tokens:
1,268
2,208
274
956
108,151
155,006
1,828,970
Table 3
Distribution of entity types across the TAB corpus, along with their corresponding identifier
type (direct identifier, quasi identifier, or no need to mask) and confidential status. The
parenthesis in the first column refers to the proportion of entities of that type, in percent. The
parentheses in the three other columns refer to the percentage of entities within this entity type
that are respectively labeled as direct identifier, quasi-identifier, or have a confidential status.
Entity type# mentions# direct# quasi# confidential
DATETIME
ORG
PERSON
LOC
DEM
MISC
CODE
QUANTITY53,668 (34.6)
40,695 (26.3)
24,322 (15.7)
9,982 (6.4)
8,683 (5.6)
7,044 (4.5)
6,471 (4.2)
4,141 (2.7)23 (0.04)
20 (0.05)
4,182 (17.2)
1 (0.01)
1 (0.01)
28 (0.4)
2,484 (38.4)
0 (0.0)48,086 (89.6)
12,880 (31.6)
15,839 (65.1)
6,908 (69.2)
4,166 (48.0)
3,437 (48.8)
3,558 (55.0)
3,370 (81.4)530 (0.99)
866 (2.1)
413 (1.7)
19 (0.2)
2,278 (26.2)
1,125 (16.0)
18 (0.3)
87 (2.1)
Total155,006 (100.0)6,739 (4.4)98,244 (63.4)5,336
(3.4)
Table 3 reports the distribution of entity types as well as the proportion of di-
rect, (masked) quasi-identifiers and confidential entities per entity category. Out of the
155,006 entity mentions, most belonged to the DATETIME, ORG and PERSON categories.
Only 4.4 % of the annotated entities were marked as direct identifiers, while 63 % were
marked as quasi-identifiers, and 32 % were left without any mask.
18Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
Table 4
Distribution of confidential attribute types.
Confidential statusCount%
HEALTH
POLITICS
ETHNIC
BELIEF
SEX
NOT_CONFIDENTIAL2,320
1,039
806
655
516
149,6701.5
0.7
0.5
0.4
0.3
96.6
The entities that were most frequently masked (either as a direct or quasi-identifier)
were CODE (93%), DATETIME (90%), PERSON (82%) and QUANTITY (81%). In contrast,
less than half of DEM entities were masked Annotators masked on average 67.9% of
entities with a standard deviation of 8.3 % across different annotators, which indicates
a certain degree of subjectivity in text anonymization. Only 3% of entities belonged to
one of the confidential attribute categories as Table 4 shows. These were mostly HEALTH,
such as speech impediment, anorexia; and POLITICS, for example, communist, Liberal Party
with all other confidential categories accounting for less than 1000 mentions.
5.2 Inter-annotator agreement
Table 5 details the level of agreement observed for several types of annotation. The
first column denotes the average observed agreement (AOA), that is, the proportion of
annotated items raters agreed on. We also include two other inter-annotator agreement
(IAA) measures that correct for chance agreement: Cohen’s κ and Krippendorff’s α.
The former measures agreement, while the latter is based on disagreements, where
missing annotations from one or more of the annotators compared do not count towards
disagreement (Artstein and Poesio 2008; Bird, Klein, and Loper 2009). Results in the
exact columns require both the start and end character offsets to match across annota-
tors, while partial results require only a match on the start offsets. We computed each
agreement measure at two levels, namely per span and per character. Since spans might
vary in length and include minor differences due to e.g. white-spaces and punctuation
marks, character-level scores allow for a more fine-grained comparison. Character-level
scores, however, provide somewhat more optimistic estimates, as also all non-annotated
characters count towards the agreement measure.
Agreement on entity types was overall high in terms of partial span-level κ and α,
where automatic pre-annotations likely had a beneficial effect. Exact span-level scores
for entities were somewhat lower. This is, however, partly due to minor mismatches
(punctuation, spaces) that also count towards disagreement. Relatively IAA rates for
confidential status were due to the fact that most entities (>96%) were annotated as
not confidential. This dominance of one annotation label leads to a very high expected
agreement for κ and very low expected disagreement for α, which have a negative
impact on the resulting IAA scores
For completeness, we also include the identifier type (direct identifier, quasi iden-
tifier or no need to mask) in Table 5. However, it should be stressed that there may be
multiple valid sets of masking choices for a given document. Inter-annotator agreement
19Table 5
Inter-annotator agreement for entities.
Type of
annotation
Entity type
Identifier type
Confidential
attribute
Unit of
agreement
Span
Character
Span
Character
Span
Character
AOA
Fleiss’ κ
Krippendorff’s α
ExactPartialExactPartialExactPartial
0.75
0.96
0.67
0.94
0.97
0.960.80
–
0.71
–
0.97
–0.67
0.86
0.46
0.79
0.30
0.860.74
–
0.51
–
0.33
–0.96
0.94
0.68
0.69
0.30
0.440.95
–
0.67
–
0.32
–
measures are therefore not entirely descriptive for the quality and consistency of the
annotation for this label group.
Determining span boundaries was generally rather consistent, likely also due to the
existence of pre-annotations. A small amount of spans (170) were unusually long, con-
taining > 100 characters. Most of those long spans correspond were due to abbreviated
or translated entity names.
See the Appendix for more details on disagreements between annotators regarding
the entity type and masking decisions.
5.3 Use of pre-annotations
As described in Section 4.2, the process of creating the initial entities for Step 1 was
facilitated by the use of pre-annotations created using a combination of a data-driven
NER model with domain-specific heuristics. We inspected how often annotators had to
edit those pre-annotations, either by modifying the detected entities, or by inserting new
entities that were absent from the pre-annotations. 18.23 % of all entity mentions were
inserted manually by the annotators (± 3.25% depending on the annotator). In total,
23.89 % of all entity mentions were either inserted or edited by the annotators (± 5.14%
depending on the annotator). Annotations for identifier type and confidential attributes
were performed manually for every entity as these were not part of pre-annotations.
5.4 Relations
As described in Section 4.2, Step 4, annotators were instructed to explicitly mark co-
reference relations between nominal entity mentions that were referring to the same
underlying entity, but did not have an identical surface realization, such as Government
of the Republic of Turkey and Turkish Government. Annotators identified in total 5,689
relations, which amount to 3.7% of all entities. The chance-corrected inter-annotator
agreement on relations between mention pairs, as measured by Cohen’s κ, is 0.944.
Most relations belong to the following entity categories: ORG (3360), PERSON
(1,741) and MISC (402). The PERSON co-reference relations largely consisted of various
name variants, e.g., Janice Williams-Johnston – Williams and titles, e.g., President of the
Court – President. For the ORG relations there were both a number of organization aliases
like Religious Society of Friends – Quakers, but also metonymic mentions of country names
20Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
like Ireland – Irish Government. The annotated co-reference relations also encompassed
a wide variety of other coreferent expressions, such as money amounts expressed in
two currencies (70,000 Polish zlotys (PLN) – 16,400 euros (EUR)), translations (Act on
Industrial Injury Insurance – Lagen om arbetsskadeförsäkring) and acronyms along with
their definitions (WBA – Widow’s Bereavement Tax Allowance).
6. Evaluation metrics
6.1 Motivation
Most existing approaches to text anonymization (such as the ones discussed in Section
3) evaluate their performance by comparing the system’s output to human annotations
on a held-out dataset. This performance is typically measured using standard IR-based
metrics such as precision and recall. The recall can be viewed as measuring the degree
of privacy protection, a high recall representing a low proportion of terms that were left
unedited in the document, but which were marked as personal identifiers by human
annotators. The precision can be similarly seen as reflecting the remaining data utility of
the protected documents — the higher the precision, the lower the proportion of terms
that were unnecessarily masked, again compared to the choices of human annotators.
A central objective of data anonymization is to strike a balance between privacy
protection and data utility preservation. This balance is often quantified by F -scores.
However, in the ’privacy-first’ approaches to data privacy that underlie most modern
approaches to data anonymization (Domingo-Ferrer, Sánchez, and Soria-Comas 2016),
recall is the most decisive metric. To reflect this precedence of privacy protection over
data preservation, several authors have proposed to assign a double weight to the
recall, which means using a F2 score instead of the traditional F1 (Ferrández et al.
2012; Mendels 2020). Moreover, the use of absolute recall values as a measure of pro-
tection/residual risk has been recently brought into question (Hassan, Sánchez, and
Domingo-Ferrer 2021; Lison et al. 2021; Mozes and Kleinberg 2021), as it relies on a
uniform weight over all annotated identifiers and thus fails to account for the fact that
some (quasi-)identifiers have a much larger influence on the disclosure risk than others.
In particular, failing to detect a direct identifier such as a full person name is much more
harmful from a privacy perspective than failing to detect a quasi-identifier.
Another important requirement for the evaluation of anonymization methods is
the need to compute the recall at the level of entities rather than mentions. Whenever an
entity is mentioned several times in a given document, it only makes sense to view this
entity as “protected” if all of its mentions are masked. If the anonymization method fails
to mask at least one mention, the entity will remain readable in the document and will
therefore disclose that (quasi-)identifier. For instance, if a person name is mentioned 4
times in a document, and the anonymization method is able to correctly mask three of
those mentions, the anonymized text will still retain one mention of that person name in
clear text – an information that can be exploited by an adversary seeking to re-identify
the individual we aim to protect.
Finally, as described in the analysis of inter-annotator agreement in Section 5.2, text
anonymization is a task that may allow for several alternative solutions, as there may
be more than one set of masking decisions that satisfy a given privacy property such
as k-anonymity. In this respect, text anonymization may be likened to other NLP tasks
such as conversational agents or machine translation, which also allow for a multiplicity
of possible solutions to a given input. The evaluation metrics must therefore be able
to compare the system output to multiple expert annotations without presupposing
21the existence of a unique gold standard. As explained below, this can be achieved by
computing recall and precision measures using a micro-average over all annotators.
On the basis of those requirements, we propose to assess the level of protection
offered by anonymization methods using a combination of three evaluation metrics:
• An entity-level recall on direct identifiers ERdi ,
• An entity-level recall on quasi-identifiers ERqi ,
• A token-level weighted precision on both direct and quasi identifiers WPdi+qi .
6.2 Metrics for privacy protection
The first two metrics ERdi and ERqi aim to reflect the degree of privacy protection. Let
D denote a set of documents, where each document d ∈ D is represented as a sequence
of tokens. Let A be a set of expert annotators, and Ea (d) be the set of entities that were
masked by annotator a in the document d. Each entity e ∈ Ea (d) is itself defined as a list
of token indices Te where that entity e is mentioned in the document d (there might be
several mentions of a given entity in a document). Then, assuming that an anonymiza-
tion model outputs a set of word indices M (d) to mask in the document d, we count
each entity e as a true positive if Te ⊂ M (d), and a false negative otherwise. In other
words, we consider that an entity is correctly masked if and only if the anonymization
model manages to completely mask all of its mentions. If that condition is not met, the
entity is counted as a false negative.
We use separate recall measures for the direct identifiers (such as full person names,
case numbers, etc.) and the quasi-identifiers (dates, locations, etc.). This distinction gives
us a more fined-grained measure of the anonymization quality, since a low recall on the
direct identifiers corresponds to a failure of the anonymization process (as it implies
that the person identity is disclosed), independently of the coverage of other types of
identifiers. The set of identifiers Ea (d) marked by annotator a in the document d is thus
split into two disjoint sets: a set Eadi (d) for the direct identifiers and a set Eaqi (d) for the
quasi-identifiers.
As noted above, a document may admit more than one anonymization solution.
To account for this multiplicity, we compute the recall and precision as micro-averages
over all annotators. The entity-level recall on direct identifiers ERdi is thus defined as
the micro-averaged recall over the entities defined as direct identifiers:
P
ERdi =
d∈D
PP
PP
a∈A
d∈D
e∈Eadi (d) 1(Te ⊂ M (d))
di
a∈A |Ea (d)|
(1)
where 1 is the indicator function. An anonymization method will thus obtain a
perfect micro-averaged recall if it masks all entities marked as direct identifier by at
least one annotator in A. The metric implicitly assigns a higher weight to tokens masked
by several annotators – in other words, if all annotators mark a given entity as a direct
identifier, not masking it (or not masking it for all of its mentions) will have a larger
impact on the recall than an entity masked by a single annotator.
The entity-level recall on quasi-identifiers ERqi is defined similarly:
P
ERqi =
d∈D
PP
PP
a∈A
d∈D
22
e∈Eaqi (d) 1(Te ⊂ M (d))
a∈A
Eaqi (d)
(2)Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
In order to apply these recall measures, the annotated corpus must satisfy two
requirements. First, each text span must be categorized as being either a direct identifier
or a quasi-identifier, in order to be able to separately compute ERdi and ERqi . Further-
more, the text spans must be grouped into entities. One trivial solution to perform this
grouping is to simply cluster mentions that contains the exact same string. However,
this strategy fails to account for the multiplicity of referring expressions that may be
possible for a given entity (such as “John Howard” vs. “Mr. J. Howard”). In the TAB
corpus, this grouping into entities relies on the combination of exact string matching
and co-reference relations manually specified by the annotators (see Section 4.2).
6.3 Metrics for utility preservation
In addition to offer robust privacy protection, anonymization methods should also
maximize the utility of the anonymized outcomes. For text anonymization, this means
preserving the semantic content of the protected documents as much as possible.
As discussed above, the utility preserved by text anonymization methods is usually
measured as their precision in masking sensitive tokens. However, the standard preci-
sion metric employed by related works weights the contribution of each unnecessarily
masked token uniformly. In contrast, in the PPDP literature on structured data (Hun-
depool et al. 2012), the utility of the anonymized outcomes is measured as the inverse
of the information loss resulting from each masked element. Therefore, the contribution
of masked elements in the remaining data utility will depend on the information they
conveyed in the first place, and how this has been affected by the masking operation.
Adapting this notion to text anonymization, we propose weighting the contribution
of the masked tokens to the precision according to their informativeness. In information-
theoretic terms, the information content IC of a token t is the inverse logarithm of its
probability of occurrence:
IC(t) = −log Pr(t).
In this way, rarer (i.e. more specific) tokens will have higher informativeness than
more general/common ones. The notion of IC has been extensively used in the past
to measure the semantic content of textual terms (Resnik 1995) and, as stated above,
semantics is the most relevant aspect of documents’ utility (Batet and Sánchez 2018).
Pr(t) can be estimated in different ways and from a variety of sources (Batet and
Sánchez 2020). In this work we use a masked language model such as BERT (Devlin
et al. 2019) to estimate Pr(t) by determining which tokens can be inferred from the rest
of the document (as is often the case for e.g. function words), and which ones represent
a more substantial contribution to the document content. The main advantage of BERT
w.r.t. a traditional n-gram model is the possibility to exploit a much broader document
context to compute the probabilities, and therefore the information content of each span.
Concretely, we compute this probability by applying BERT (with a language mod-
eling head on top) on the full document where all masked tokens are replaced by the
special [MASK] symbol. Then, one can then define the information content IC(t, d) of the
masked token t at position i in document d as:
IC(t, d) = − log(BERT (d)[i, t])
(3)
where BERT (d)[i, t] denotes the probability value of token t predicted by BERT at
position i in the document. A high probability value reflects that the token is predictable
23from the document context, and therefore has a low information content. In contrast, a
low probability value indicates a token that cannot be inferred from the remaining part
of the document, and has therefore a high information content.
As for the aforementioned metrics for privacy protection, measures of utility preser-
vation should also account for the fact that the anonymization of a given document
may lead to several equally valid solutions. This can be similarly expressed through a
micro-average over annotators. Putting it all together, we define the weighted token-
level precision on all identifiers WPdi+qi as
P
WPdi+qi =
d∈D
P
a∈A
|A|
P
P
t∈M (d) 1(t ∈ Ta (d)) · IC(t, d)
d∈D
P
t∈M (d) IC(t, d)
(4)
S
where Ta (d) = e∈Ea (d) Te represents all tokens masked by annotator a in docu-
ment d, including both direct identifiers and quasi-identifiers. In other words, a low
precision indicates that the anonymization model has masked many tokens that, ac-
cording to the expert annotator(s), did not need to be concealed. Since each token is
weighted by its information content IC(t, d), tokens that convey more information (or,
equivalently, are more difficult to predict from the edited document) lead to a higher
penalty on the precision measure.
6.4 Example
Table 6 illustrates an example of a short paragraph including two human annotators
and the output of two anonymization models.
We can observe in this example that both annotators have marked two direct iden-
tifiers: no. 12345/67 and John Doe / Doe. The annotators have, however, decided to select
different quasi-identifiers: while the first annotator marked British and 1 October 2021,
the second annotator decided to mask Kingdom of Sweden, 1 October 2021, and researcher.
The first anonymization model (Longformer) correctly identified all direct identi-
fiers, resulting in ERdi = 2+2
2+2 = 1. However, the model has only masked the date as
1+1
quasi identifier, giving ERqi = 2+3
= 0.4. Since all 7 tokens belonging to the four entity
mentions masked by the model were also masked by both annotators, WPdi+qi = 7+7
7+7 =
1 if we assume for simplicity that all tokens have a uniform IC value set to 1.
The second anonymization tool (Presidio) detects the person’s name but leaves
2+0
the case number unmasked, yielding ERdi = 2+2
= 0.5. The tool also detects the quasi-
identifier Kingdom of Sweden (marked by the second annotator) and the date (marked by
both annotators), resulting in ERqi = 1+2
2+3 = 0.6. The token-level precision of this second
9+10
model – assuming again uniform IC weights for all tokens – is WPdi+qi = 13+13
≈ 0.73
since out of a total of 13 tokens masked by the tool, 9 and 10 tokens were also respec-
tively masked by the first and second annotator.
7. Empirical results
To illustrate the use and potential results derived from our evaluation framework, in
this section we report empirical results on the evaluation of three well-differentiated
systems for text anonymization. The first two systems correspond to baselines that
rely on existing neural models for Named Entity Recognition (NER), while the third
approach is explicitly fine-tuned on the masking decisions of the TAB corpus.
24Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
Table 6
Short paragraph annotated by two human annotators. Each annotated text span is associated
with an entity ID and a type (direct or quasi). Below the human annotations, we also show the
masking decisions of two anonymization models, Longformer and Presidio (cf. next section).
ANNOTATOR 1
ANNOTATOR 2
The case originated in an application (no. 12345/67) against
① (DIRECT)
① (DIRECT)
SYSTEM 1 (Longformer)
SYSTEM 2 (Presidio)
the Kingdom of Sweden by a British national, Mr John Doe,
ANNOTATOR 1
② (QUASI)
ANNOTATOR 2
③ (DIRECT)
② (QUASI)
③ (DIRECT)
SYSTEM 1 (Longformer)
SYSTEM 2 (Presidio)
on 1 October 2021. Mr Doe is a British researcher.
ANNOTATOR 1
ANNOTATOR 2
④ (QUASI)③ (DIRECT)
④ (QUASI)③ (DIRECT)
② (QUASI)
⑤ (QUASI)
SYSTEM 1 (Longformer)
SYSTEM 2 (Presidio)
7.1 Baseline Performance
The first anonymization model relies on a neural named entity recognition model based
on the RoBERTa language model (Liu et al. 2019a) and fine-tuned for NER on the
Ontonotes v5 (Weischedel et al. 2011), as implemented in spaCy (Honnibal et al. 2020).
The anonymization masked the full set of 18 categories from Ontonotes (PERSON, ORG,
GPE, LOC, DATE, TIME, LANGUAGE, CARDINAL, EVENT, FAC, LAW, LOC, MONEY, NORP,
ORDINAL, PERCENT, PRODUCT, QUANTITY, WORK_OF_ART), with the exception of CAR-
DINAL entities where only occurrences comprising at least four digits were masked to
avoid too many false positives.
The second anonymization tool is Presidio13 , a data protection & anonymization
API developed by Microsoft that relies on a combination of template-based and NER-
based machine learning models to detect and mask personally identifiable information
in text. Compared to the generic neural NER model above, Presidio’s named entity
types, models and rules are explicitly targeted towards data privacy. The tool masked
the following entity types: PERSON, LOCATION, NRP (nationality, religious or political
group), DATE_TIME, contact information (email address, phone number) and various
codes and numbers (driver license, bank account, identification numbers, etc.). We
provide evaluation results for Presidio under two configuration settings, namely the
13 Version 2.2.23. https://github.com/microsoft/presidio
25default mode and one in which the detection of organization names (governments,
public administration, companies, etc.) is also activated.
Table 7 reports the evaluation results for both systems on the development and
test sets of our corpus. In particular we report the standard precision and recall metrics
employed in related works (which give uniform weights to all terms and assess matches
at the level of entity mentions), and the new privacy and utility metrics we presented in
Section 6.
Table 7
Evaluation results for the two baselines (generic neural NER model and Microsoft Presidio) on
the development and test sections of the TAB corpus. We report both the standard, token-level
recall Rdi+qi and precision Pdi+qi on all identifiers (micro-averaged over all annotators) as well
as the three proposed evaluation metrics ERdi , ERqi and WPdi+qi from Section 6.
SystemSetRdi+qiERdiERqiPdi+qiWPdi+qi
Neural NER (RoBERTa
fine-tuned on Ontonotes v5)Dev
Test0.910
0.9060.970
0.9400.874
0.8740.447
0.4410.531
0.515
Presidio (default)Dev
Test0.696
0.7070.452
0.4600.739
0.7580.771
0.7610.795
0.790
Presidio (+ORG)Dev
Test0.767
0.7820.465
0.4630.779
0.8020.549
0.5420.622
0.609
Presidio’s results illustrate the importance of computing separate recall measures
for the direct and the quasi identifiers: although the standard, mention-level recall
seems relatively good at first sight (around 0.7), a closer look a the entity-level recall
over direct identifiers ERdi shows a much poorer performance (around 0.45). Since
quasi-identifiers are typically much more frequent than direct identifiers, this poor
performance on direct identifiers (which are the most harmful entities from a privacy
perspective) is easy to miss if one conflates all identifiers in a single recall measure.
In particular, Presidio fails to detect all court case numbers (a category it was not
trained on), which is a publicly known information that unequivocally identifies the
case applicant. Even though Presidio was able to detect other direct identifiers such as
the applicant’s name, failing to detect case numbers will likely render the anonymiza-
tion useless. In contrast, the generic NER model got significantly better results w.r.t.
direct identifiers because, coincidentally, case numbers matched the generic CARDINAL
class from Ontonotes. However, this would no longer hold if case numbers had been
alphanumeric rather than numeric. This shows that not only quasi-identifiers, but also
direct identifiers cannot be limited to predefined categories of entities.
On the other hand, the generic NER model performed poorly w.r.t. precision: due
to the large variety of general categories it considers, more than half of the tagged
entities dit not need to be masked. A similar behavior can be observed for Presidio when
enabling the quite general ORG category: recall sightly increases at the cost of a signif-
icantly lower precision. Indeed, the goal of the anonymization process is not to detect
all occurrences of predefined semantic categories, but to mask only entities that refer to
the individual to be protected. Court cases are quite rich in contextual information that
do not refer to the applicant or the application, but to laws or procedures. As a result,
a substantial number of persons, places and organizations do not need to be edited
out. This illustrates another limitation of NER-based systems, namely the fact that they
26Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
incur in unnecessary masking that hampers the utility and readability of the protected
outcomes. In summary, both systems offered a poor balance between recall/protection
and precision/utility preservation.
We also observe that the weighted utility metric we propose in Section 6 (WPdi+qi )
results in higher figures than the standard precision. Considering that our metric
weights the contribution of each unnecessarily masked term according to its infor-
mation content (whereas the standard precision treats them uniformly), this indicates
that these terms are less informative (that is, more general) than the average. This
is also consistent with the fact that these unmasked terms do not seem to incur in
privacy disclosure according to the annotators, either because they are not related to the
individual to be protected or due to they provide very general information. Therefore,
our metric provides a more accurate estimation of the utility preserved in the protected
output than the standard precision.
7.2 Performance of fine-tuned models
Contrary to the first two baseline systems, which are zero-shot approaches that did
not rely on any form of domain adaptation, the third approach is explicitly fine-tuned
on the training set of the TAB corpus. More specifically, we evaluate the anonymiza-
tion performance by fine-tuning a large pretrained language model, the Longformer
(Beltagy, Peters, and Cohan 2020) model, which is a BERT-style model built from the
RoBERTa (Liu et al. 2019b) checkpoint and pretrained for masked language modelling
on long documents. It uses a modified attention mechanism, namely a combination of
a sliding window (local) attention and global attention, which allows for processing of
longer documents. This addresses the downside of BERT-style models which are able
to process up to 512 tokens, and for which existing techniques either shorten the text or
partition it, thereby resulting in a loss of contextual information. Early experiments with
a RoBERTa model have indeed shown a negative difference of 2-4 percentage points in
F1 score compared to the Longformer model.
The LongFormer model 14 was fine-tuned on the training set of the TAB corpus with
a linear inference layer on top to predict which text span should be masked using IOB
sequence labelling. When multiple annotations were available for the same court case,
we chose to treat all annotations as equally correct and duplicate the document for each
distinct annotation layer. Each token received a MASK label if its identifier type was set
by the annotator to either DIRECT or QUASI.
The experimental results obtained with various settings of this LongFormer model
are shown in Table 8. We provide results for different window sizes (the maximum al-
lowed by LongFormer being 4096 tokens). Furthermore, to reflect the higher importance
attached to the recall in text anonymization, we also provide results for various label
weights set on the cross-entropy loss.15 The optimization used the AdamW optimizer
(Loshchilov and Hutter 2019) with a learning rate of 2 × 10−5 and 2 epochs. The above
hyper-parameters were all selected experimentally on the development set.
Unsurprisingly, the fine-tuned LongFormer model outperforms the previous base-
lines from Table 7. As expected, we also notice that the performance on the recall metrics
improve for higher weights associated to the MASK label, while a larger window
14 https://huggingface.co/allenai/longformer-base-4096
15 In other words, a label weight of e.g. (5,1) stipulates that the cost of a false negative (omitting to mask a
token that should have been masked) is five times the cost of a false positive.
27Table 8
Experimental results for the fine-tuned LongFormer model on the development set depending
on the context window size and the label weight.
Rdi+qiERdiERqiPdi+qiWPdi+qi
(1,1)
(5,1)
(10,1)0.875
0.924
0.9540.987
0.992
0.9940.850
0.915
0.9520.612
0.550
0.4700.643
0.583
0.507
512
512
512(1,1)
(5,1)
(10,1)0.847
0.914
0.9370.986
0.993
0.9970.817
0.906
0.9300.929
0.858
0.7670.932
0.866
0.783
4096
4096
4096(1,1)
(5,1)
(10,1)0.860
0.916
0.9350.988
0.988
0.9930.847
0.913
0.9360.925
0.843
0.7950.929
0.856
0.811
Window size
(nb tokens)Label weight
32
32
32
(MASK, NO_MASK)
size makes it possible to take into account a broader context, and therefore a higher
precision. We select the Longformer model with the maximum window size and label
weight of (10,1) for the final evaluation, shown in Table 9.
Table 9
Evaluation result for the fine-tuned LongFormer model with a window size of 4096 and a label
weight of (10,1) on the development and test section of the TAB corpus.
SetRdi+qiERdiERqiPdi+qiWPdi+qi
Dev
Test0.935
0.9190.993
1.0000.936
0.9160.795
0.8360.811
0.850
Figure 3 shows the distribution of false negatives per semantic type (see 4.2), for
both the development and the test set. We notice that the entity types MISC, DEM and
ORG are substantially more difficult to handle that the other entity types. For MISC and
DEM, this difficulty seems to stem primarily from the difficulty to detect the occurrences
of those entities, as, in contrast to the other entity types, they do not correspond to
named entities and may take a broad variety of forms. For ORG, the proportion of false
negatives stems from the fact that masking decisions related to this type of organizations
seem to be particularly difficult – even for human annotators, as evidenced by the
relatively large proportion of QUASI vs. NO_MASK disagreements for this entity type
(see Table 12). This problem is particularly salient for the mentions of regional courts,
which are often mentioned in ECHR court cases, and which often provide indirect cues
about the place of residence of the applicant. We also provide in Table 10 a few examples
of masking errors, categorized in four distinct error types.
28Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
Figure 3
Proportion of false negatives factored per entity type in the development and test sets. The
relative frequency of each type in the corpus is given in parenthesis next to the entity type.
MISC (4.5%)
DEM (5.6%)
Semantic type
ORG (26.3%)
LOC (6.4%)
QUANTITY (2.7%)
CODE (4.2%)
DATETIME (34.6%)
Dev
Test
PERSON (15.7%)
0
10
20
30
Percentage
40
50
Table 10
Examples of masking errors. The true span according to the human annotators is compared
against the model’s prediction.
1) Missed entity mentions (false negatives)
to hospital for psychiatric care.
goods, such as lamps and cutlery.
2) Entity mentions that are only partly
masked (under-masking)
3) Spurious masks (false positives)
to the post of deputy director in charge of credit cards
was sentences to six year’s imprisonment.
investigating judge at the Istanbul State Security Court.
by a Turkish national
4) Entity mentions that are masked more
than necessary (over-masking)
by the initials C.C., the applicant
declared Latem AB bankrupt
True
Predicted
297.3 Performance on out-of-domain data
To assess whether the fined-tuned anonymization model could be applied on out-of-
domain data (and more specifically on texts outside of the legal domain), we also
evaluate its performance on a dataset of Wikipedia biographies that we have manually
annotated for text anonymization (Papadopoulou et al. 2022). Biographies are rich in
personal information of a more general nature since they describe a large number of
different individuals.
This dataset, which was constructed as a follow-up to the TAB corpus, consists of
553 biographies, 20 of which were annotated by more than one annotator. The annota-
tion process and guidelines for this dataset were very similar to the process described
in Section 4, with each text span being assigned a semantic type and a identifier type.
The only substantial difference in the two annotation processes was the absence of an-
notation for the confidential status of each entity. The dataset is, however, substantially
smaller than the TAB corpus, with about 11,217 annotated entities, compared to a total
of 108,151 entities for TAB.
Table 11 presents the evaluation results of two anonymization models when applied
to this dataset of Wikipedia biographies. The first is the neural NER model presented in
Section 7.1, which consists of a RoBERTa language model fine-tuned for Named Entity
Recognition on Ontonotes v5. The second model is the Longformer model from Section
7.2, fine-tuned on the training set of TAB.
Table 11
Evaluation results for the fine-tuned LongFormer model on the manually annotated Wikipedia
dataset. A generic neural NER model was also used for comparison.
Rdi+qiERdiERqiPdi+qiWPdi+qi
RoBERTa (fined-tuned on Ontonotes)0.8450.8100.8010.7700.836
Longformer (fine-tuned on TAB)0.9520.9990.9230.7080.765
As we can observe in Table 11, the Longformer model fine-tuned on the training set
of TAB can detect a relatively large number of personal information in the Wikipedia
biographies, despite the substantial differences in the linguistic form of those texts. In
comparison, the generic RoBERTa model trained on the named entities from Ontonotes
misses a sizable number of both direct and indirect identifiers.
8. Conclusions and future work
We have presented a novel benchmark and associated evaluation metrics for text
anonymization evaluation. Compared to the evaluation corpora available in the liter-
ature, the TAB corpus is larger (accounting more than a thousand documents), more
general (due to the broad range of biographical details mentioned in court cases), freely
available in clear form (due to not being subjected to privacy issues), and explicitly
targeted towards text anonymization.
Manual annotation efforts are inherently limited by the presence of residual errors,
omissions, inconsistencies, or differences in human judgments. Human annotations
cannot provide any formal privacy guarantees, in contrast to methods based on explicit
privacy models such as k-anonymity and its extensions (Samarati 2001; Samarati and
30Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
Sweeney 1998; Li, Li, and Venkatasubramanian 2007) or differential privacy (Dwork
et al. 2006; Dwork and Roth 2014). However, those issues were mitigated in the devel-
opment of the TAB corpus by:
• defining domain-independent and privacy/GDPR-oriented annotation guide-
lines, and avoiding in particular to restrict the anonymization process to prede-
fined lists of entity types;
• aggregating the masking decisions of several human annotators in the evaluation
metrics using micro-averages.
The annotators were instructed to determine which the entities to mask based on
“publicly available knowledge”, for instance through information that can be gathered
on the web. The annotations are therefore dependent on the assumption that potential
attackers do not have access to other (non-public) sources of background knowledge
related to the court cases or the individuals mentioned in them. The need to rely on an
explicit assumption regarding the available background knowledge is another impor-
tant difference between the annotation strategy presented in this paper and approaches
based on differential privacy, which do not need to rely on such assumptions.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark aims to facilitate the evaluation and compari-
son of anonymization algorithms for textual data, and provide a more accurate assess-
ment of the actual privacy protection they achieve. In particular, we show in Section 7
that NER-based methods, which constitute the de facto approach for text anonymization
in most domains (to the possible exception of biomedical texts), offer weak protection.
We also have shown how a baseline model based on a pre-trained language model
explicitly fine-tuned for anonymization is able to provide stronger protection against
disclosure and a better balance between privacy and data utility preservation.
In addition to the TAB corpus, we have also presented a set of evaluation metrics
for text anonymization that go beyond the standard IR-based metrics employed in the
literature. The novelty of our metrics consists of weighting the contribution of each term
according to the level of disclosure risk it incurs and the information it conveys. With
this we provide a more comprehensive and accurate assessment of the performance of
anonymization methods, as we have shown in the empirical experiments.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark focuses on detecting and annotating terms
that may cause disclosure, and must be subsequently concealed or masked. Neverthe-
less, since the best anonymization is such that it optimizes the trade-off between pri-
vacy protection and data utility preservation, replacing sensitive terms by less detailed
versions (i.e., generalizations) would be preferred to just suppressing them. Current
de-identification/anonymization methods are typically limited to term suppression
or, at most, to replacing sensitive terms by their semantic categories (such as replac-
ing "John Doe" with "[PERSON]"). However, some utility-preserving generalization-
based methods have been proposed (Anandan et al. 2012; Sánchez and Batet 2016,
2017; Chakaravarthy et al. 2008). As future work, we plan to extend our benchmark
by incorporating privacy-preserving replacements for masked terms. This is certainly
challenging, because multiple combinations of replacements could be equally valid to
prevent disclosure, but only one would be optimal from the perspective of data utility
preservation. This selection of privacy-preserving replacements will enable us to better
evaluate the loss of utility incurred by anonymization methods, and provide a ground
truth for optimal utility-preserving masking. We also expect that our utility metric will
be of great help to accurately quantify the utility loss.
31Acknowledgments
We acknowledge support from the Norwegian Research Council (CLEANUP project
(http://cleanup.nr.no/), grant nr. 308904) and the Government of Catalonia (ICREA
Acadèmia Prize to D. Sánchez). We also wish to thank the 12 law students who contributed to
the annotation process: Isak Falch Alsos, Saba Abadhar, Sigurd Teofanovic, Vilde Katrin Lervik,
Sarah Kristin Geisler, Louise Øverås Nilsen, Marlena Zaczek, Ole Martin Moen, Nina Stærnes,
Rose Monrad, Selina Ovat and Alexandra Kleinitz Schultz. The views in this paper are not
necessarily shared by UNESCO.
References
Aberdeen, John, Samuel Bayer, Reyyan
Yeniterzi, Ben Wellner, Cheryl Clark,
David Hanauer, Bradley Malin, and
Lynette Hirschman. 2010. The MITRE
identification scrubber toolkit: design,
training, and assessment. International
Journal of Medical Informatics,
79(12):849–859.
Alfalahi, Alyaa, Sara Brissman, and Hercules
Dalianis. 2012. Pseudonymisation of
personal names and other PHIs in an
annotated clinical Swedish corpus. In
Third LREC Workshop on Building and
Evaluating Resources for Biomedical Text
Mining (BioTxtM 2012), pages 49–54.
Anandan, Balamurugan and Chris Clifton.
2011. Significance of term relationships on
anonymization. In Proceedings of the 2011
IEEE/WIC/ACM International Joint
Conference on Web Intelligence and Intelligent
Agent Technology - Workshops, WI-IAT 2011,
pages 253–256, Lyon, France.
Anandan, Balamurugan, Chris Clifton, Wei
Jiang, Mummoorthy Murugesan, Pedro
Pastrana-Camacho, and Luo Si. 2012.
t-plausibility: Generalizing words to
desensitize text. Transactions on Data
Privacy, 5(3):505–534.
Artstein, Ron and Massimo Poesio. 2008.
Survey article: Inter-coder agreement for
computational linguistics. Computational
Linguistics, 34(4):555–596.
Barrett, Maria, Yova Kementchedjhieva,
Yanai Elazar, Desmond Elliott, and Anders
Søgaard. 2019. Adversarial removal of
demographic attributes revisited. In
Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing and the 9th International Joint
Conference on Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 6330–6335,
Association for Computational
Linguistics, Hong Kong, China.
32
Batet, Montserrat and David Sánchez. 2018.
Semantic disclosure control: semantics
meets data privacy. Online Information
Review, 42(3):290–303.
Batet, Montserrat and David Sánchez. 2020.
Leveraging synonymy and polysemy to
improve semantic similarity assessments
based on intrinsic information content.
Artificial Intelligence Review,
53(3):2023–2041.
Beltagy, Iz, Kyle Lo, and Arman Cohan. 2019.
Scibert: A pretrained language model for
scientific text. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1903.10676.
Beltagy, Iz, Matthew E. Peters, and Arman
Cohan. 2020. Longformer: The
long-document transformer.
Bick, Eckhard and Anabela Barreiro. 2015.
Automatic anonymisation of a new
portuguese-english parallel corpus in the
legal-financial domains. Oslo Studies in
Language, 7(1):101–124.
Bier, Eric A., Richard Chow, Philippe Golle,
Tracy H. King, and J. Staddon. 2009. The
rules of redaction: Identify, protect, review
(and repeat). IEEE Security and Privacy
Magazine, 7(6):46–53.
Bird, Steven, Ewan Klein, and Edward Loper.
2009. Natural language processing with
Python: analyzing text with the natural
language toolkit. " O’Reilly Media, Inc.".
Blodgett, Su Lin, Lisa Green, and Brendan
O’Connor. 2016. Demographic dialectal
variation in social media: A case study of
African-American English. In Proceedings
of the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing, pages
1119–1130, Association for Computational
Linguistics, Austin, Texas.
Boisen, Sean, Michael R. Crystal, Richard
Schwartz, Rebecca Stone, and Ralph
Weischedel. 2000. Annotating resources
for information extraction. In Proceedings
of the Second International Conference onIldikó Pilán et al.
Language Resources and Evaluation
(LREC’00), European Language Resources
Association (ELRA), Athens, Greece.
Bommasani, Rishi, Steven Wu, Zhiwei, and
Alexandra K Schofield. 2019. Towards
private synthetic text generation. In
NeurIPS 2019 Workshop on Machine
Learning with Guarantees, Vancouver,
Canada.
Chakaravarthy, Venkatesan T., Himanshu
Gupta, Prasan Roy, and Mukesh K.
Mohania. 2008. Efficient techniques for
document sanitization. In Proceedings of the
17th ACM Conference on Information and
Knowledge Management, CIKM 2008, pages
843–852, Napa Valley, California, USA.
Chiu, Jason P.C. and Eric Nichols. 2016.
Named entity recognition with
bidirectional LSTM-CNNs. Transactions of
the Association for Computational Linguistics,
4:357–370.
Chow, Richard, Philippe Golle, and Jessica
Staddon. 2008. Detecting privacy leaks
using corpus-based association rules. In
Proceedings of the 14th ACM SIGKDD
International Conference on Knowledge
Discovery and Data Mining, KDD ’08, page
893–901, Association for Computing
Machinery, New York, NY, USA.
Cohen, Julie E. 2012. What privacy is for.
Harvard Law Review, 126:1904.
Cumby, Chad M. and Rayid Ghani. 2011. A
machine learning based system for
semi-automatically redacting documents.
In Proceedings of the Twenty-Third
Conference on Innovative Applications of
Artificial Intelligence, pages 1628–1635, San
Francisco, California, USA.
Dernoncourt, Franck, Ji Young Lee, Ozlem
Uzuner, and Peter Szolovits. 2017.
De-identification of patient notes with
recurrent neural networks. Journal of the
American Medical Informatics Association,
24(3):596–606.
Devlin, Jacob, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee,
and Kristina Toutanova. 2018. BERT:
Pre-training of deep bidirectional
transformers for language understanding.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805.
Devlin, Jacob, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee,
and Kristina Toutanova. 2019. BERT:
Pre-training of deep bidirectional
transformers for language understanding.
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the
North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short
Papers), pages 4171–4186, Association for
Computational Linguistics, Minneapolis,
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
Minnesota.
Domingo-Ferrer, Josep, David Sánchez, and
Jordi Soria-Comas. 2016. Database
Anonymization: Privacy Models, Data Utility,
and Microaggregation-based Inter-model
Connections. Synthesis Lectures on
Information Security, Privacy & Trust.
Morgan & Claypool Publishers.
Dwork, Cynthia, Frank McSherry, Kobbi
Nissim, and Adam Smith. 2006.
Calibrating Noise to Sensitivity in Private
Data Analysis. In Theory of Cryptography,
pages 265–284, Springer Berlin
Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg.
Dwork, Cynthia and Aaron Roth. 2014. The
algorithmic foundations of differential
privacy. Found. Trends Theor. Comput. Sci.,
9(3–4):211–407.
Eder, Elisabeth, Ulrike Krieg-Holz, and Udo
Hahn. 2020. CodE Alltag 2.0 — a
pseudonymized German-language email
corpus. In Proceedings of the 12th Language
Resources and Evaluation Conference, pages
4466–4477, European Language Resources
Association, Marseille, France.
Elazar, Yanai and Yoav Goldberg. 2018.
Adversarial removal of demographic
attributes from text data. In Proceedings of
the 2018 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, pages 11–21,
Association for Computational
Linguistics, Brussels, Belgium.
Fernandes, Natasha, Mark Dras, and
Annabelle McIver. 2019. Generalised
differential privacy for text document
processing. In Principles of Security and
Trust - 8th International Conference, POST
2019, Held as Part of the European Joint
Conferences on Theory and Practice of
Software, ETAPS 2019, Prague, Czech
Republic, April 6-11, 2019, Proceedings,
volume 11426 of Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, pages 123–148, Springer.
Ferrández, O., B. R. South, S. Shen, F. J.
Friedlin, M. H. Samore, and S. M. Meystre.
2012. Evaluating current automatic
de-identification methods with veteran’s
health administration clinical documents.
BMC Medical Research Methodology,
12(1):109–124.
Feyisetan, Oluwaseyi, Tom Diethe, and
Thomas Drake. 2019. Leveraging
hierarchical representations for preserving
privacy and utility in text. In 2019 IEEE
International Conference on Data Mining
(ICDM), pages 210–219, IEEE.
Finn, Rachel L, David Wright, and Michael
Friedewald. 2013. Seven types of privacy.
In European data protection: coming of age.
33Springer, pages 3–32.
GDPR. 2016. General Data Protection
Regulation. European Union Regulation
2016/679.
Gearty, Conor A. 1993. The european court
of human rights and the protection of civil
liberties: An overview. The Cambridge Law
Journal, 52(1):89–127.
Golle, Philippe. 2006. Revisiting the
uniqueness of simple demographics in the
US population. In Proceedings of the 5th
ACM Workshop on Privacy in electronic
society, pages 77–80, ACM.
Habernal, Ivan. 2021. When differential
privacy meets NLP: The devil is in the
detail. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, page (to appear), Association
for Computational Linguistics, Punta
Cana, Dominican Republic.
Hart, Michael, Pratyusa Manadhata, and Rob
Johnson. 2011. Text Classification for Data
Loss Prevention. In Proceedings of the 11th
Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium
(PETS), pages 18–37.
Hassan, Fadi, David Sánchez, and Josep
Domingo-Ferrer. 2021. Utility-preserving
privacy protection of textual documents
via word embeddings. IEEE Transactions
on Knowledge and Data Engineering, (in
press).
Hathurusinghe, Rajitha, Isar Nejadgholi, and
Miodrag Bolic. 2021. A privacy-preserving
approach to extraction of personal
information through automatic annotation
and federated learning.
Hintze, Mike. 2017. Viewing the GDPR
through a de-identification lens: a tool for
compliance, clarification, and consistency.
International Data Privacy Law, 8(1):86–101.
HIPAA. 2004. The Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act. U.S. Dept. of Labor,
Employee Benefits Security
Administration.
Honnibal, Matthew, Ines Montani, Sofie
Van Landeghem, and Adriane Boyd. 2020.
spaCy: Industrial-strength Natural
Language Processing in Python.
Huang, Yangsibo, Zhao Song, Danqi Chen,
Kai Li, and Sanjeev Arora. 2020. TextHide:
Tackling data privacy in language
understanding tasks. In Findings of the
Association for Computational Linguistics:
EMNLP 2020, pages 1368–1382,
Association for Computational
Linguistics, Online.
Hundepool, Anco, Josep Domingo-Ferrer,
Luisa Franconi, Sarah Giessing,
Eric Schulte Nordholt, Keith Spicer, and
34
Peter-Paul De Wolf. 2012. Statistical
disclosure control. John Wiley & Sons.
Jensen, Kristian Nørgaard, Mike Zhang, and
Barbara Plank. 2021. De-identification of
privacy-related entities in job postings. In
Proceedings of the 23rd Nordic Conference of
Computational Linguistics (NODALIDA).
Johnson, Alistair EW, Lucas Bulgarelli, and
Tom J Pollard. 2020. Deidentification of
free-text medical records using pre-trained
bidirectional transformers. In Proceedings
of the ACM Conference on Health, Inference,
and Learning, pages 214–221.
Kasper, Debbie VS. 2007. Privacy as a social
good. Social thought & research, pages
165–189.
Krishna, Satyapriya, Rahul Gupta, and
Christophe Dupuy. 2021. ADePT:
Auto-encoder based differentially private
text transformation. In Proceedings of the
16th Conference of the European Chapter of
the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Main Volume, pages 2435–2439,
Association for Computational
Linguistics, Online.
Lample, Guillaume, Miguel Ballesteros,
Sandeep Subramanian, Kazuya
Kawakami, and Chris Dyer. 2016. Neural
architectures for named entity recognition.
In Proceedings of the 2016 Conference of the
North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies, pages 260–270, San Diego,
California.
Lee, Jinhyuk, Wonjin Yoon, Sungdong Kim,
Donghyeon Kim, Sunkyu Kim, Chan Ho
So, and Jaewoo Kang. 2020. Biobert: a
pre-trained biomedical language
representation model for biomedical text
mining. Bioinformatics, 36(4):1234–1240.
Lee, Kenton, Luheng He, Mike Lewis, and
Luke Zettlemoyer. 2017. End-to-end
neural coreference resolution. In
Proceedings of the 2017 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, pages 188–197, Association for
Computational Linguistics, Copenhagen,
Denmark.
Li, Ninghui, Tiancheng Li, and Suresh
Venkatasubramanian. 2007. t-Closeness:
Privacy Beyond k-Anonymity and
l-Diversity. In 23rd International Conference
on Data Engineering (ICDE 2007), pages
106–115, IEEE.
Li, Xuechen, Florian Tramèr, Percy Liang,
and Tatsunori Hashimoto. 2021. Large
language models can be strong
differentially private learners. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2110.05679.Ildikó Pilán et al.
Li, Yitong, Timothy Baldwin, and Trevor
Cohn. 2018. Towards robust and
privacy-preserving text representations. In
Proceedings of the 56th Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 2: Short Papers), pages 25–30,
Association for Computational
Linguistics, Melbourne, Australia.
Lison, Pierre, Ildikó Pilán, David Sánchez,
Montserrat Batet, and Lilja Øvrelid. 2021.
Anonymisation Models for Text Data:
State of the Art, Challenges and Future
Directions. In Proceedings of the 59th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics and the 11th International Joint
Conference on Natural Language Processing.
Liu, Yinhan, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei
Du, Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer
Levy, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and
Veselin Stoyanov. 2019a. Roberta: A
robustly optimized BERT pretraining
approach. CoRR, abs/1907.11692.
Liu, Yinhan, Myle Ott, Naman Goyal, Jingfei
Du, Mandar Joshi, Danqi Chen, Omer
Levy, Mike Lewis, Luke Zettlemoyer, and
Veselin Stoyanov. 2019b. Roberta: A
robustly optimized bert pretraining
approach.
Liu, Zengjian, Buzhou Tang, Xiaolong Wang,
and Qingcai Chen. 2017. De-identification
of clinical notes via recurrent neural
network and conditional random field.
Journal of Biomedical Informatics,
75:S34–S42.
Loshchilov, Ilya and Frank Hutter. 2019.
Decoupled weight decay regularization.
In International Conference on Learning
Representations.
Marimon, Montserrat, Aitor
Gonzalez-Agirre, Ander Intxaurrondo,
Heidy Rodriguez, Jose Lopez Martin,
Marta Villegas, and Martin Krallinger.
2019. Automatic de-identification of
medical texts in spanish: the meddocan
track, corpus, guidelines, methods and
evaluation of results. In IberLEF@ SEPLN,
pages 618–638.
McMahan, H. Brendan, Daniel Ramage,
Kunal Talwar, and Li Zhang. 2017.
Learning Differentially Private Recurrent
Language Models. arXiv:1710.06963 [cs].
Medlock, Ben. 2006. An introduction to
NLP-based textual anonymisation. In
Proceedings of the Fifth International
Conference on Language Resources and
Evaluation (LREC’06), pages 1051–1056,
European Language Resources
Association (ELRA), Genoa, Italy.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
Megyesi, Beáta, Lena Granstedt, Sofia
Johansson, Julia Prentice, Dan Rosén,
Carl-Johan Schenström, Gunlög Sundberg,
Mats Wirén, and Elena Volodina. 2018.
Learner corpus anonymization in the age
of GDPR: Insights from the creation of a
learner corpus of Swedish. In Proceedings
of the 7th workshop on NLP for Computer
Assisted Language Learning, pages 47–56,
LiU Electronic Press, Stockholm, Sweden.
Mendels, Omri. 2020. Custom nlp
approaches to data anonymization.
Towards data science.
Meystre, Stephane M, F Jeffrey Friedlin,
Brett R South, Shuying Shen, and
Matthew H Samore. 2010. Automatic
de-identification of textual documents in
the electronic health record: a review of
recent research. BMC Medical Research
Methodology, 10(1):70.
Mosallanezhad, Ahmadreza, Ghazaleh Beigi,
and Huan Liu. 2019. Deep reinforcement
learning-based text anonymization against
private-attribute inference. In Proceedings
of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing and the 9th
International Joint Conference on Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP),
pages 2360–2369, Association for
Computational Linguistics, Hong Kong,
China.
Mozes, Maximilian and Bennett Kleinberg.
2021. No intruder, no validity: Evaluation
criteria for privacy-preserving text
anonymization. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2103.09263.
Neamatullah, Ishna, Margaret M Douglass,
H Lehman Li-wei, Andrew Reisner,
Mauricio Villarroel, William J Long, Peter
Szolovits, George B Moody, Roger G
Mark, and Gari D Clifford. 2008.
Automated de-identification of free-text
medical records. BMC Medical Informatics
and Decision Making, 8(1):32.
Papadopoulou, Anthi, Pierre Lison, , Lilja
Øvrelid, and Ildikó Pilán. 2022.
Bootstrapping text anonymization models
with distant supervision. In Proceedings of
the Language Resources and Evaluation
Conference, pages 4477–4487, European
Language Resources Association,
Marseille, France.
Patel, Namrata, Pierre Accorsi, Diana
Inkpen, Cédric Lopez, and Mathieu
Roche. 2013. Approaches of
anonymisation of an SMS corpus. In
Proceedings of the International Conference on
Intelligent Text Processing and Computational
Linguistics, pages 77–88.
35Peloquin, David, Michael DiMaio, Barbara
Bierer, and Mark Barnes. 2020. Disruptive
and avoidable: Gdpr challenges to
secondary research uses of data. European
Journal of Human Genetics, 28(6):697–705.
Reddy, Sravana and Kevin Knight. 2016.
Obfuscating gender in social media
writing. In Proceedings of the First Workshop
on NLP and Computational Social Science,
pages 17–26, Association for
Computational Linguistics, Austin, Texas.
Resnik, Philip. 1995. Using information
content to evaluate semantic similarity in a
taxonomy. In Proceedings of the 14th
international joint conference on Artificial
intelligence (IJCAI’95), pages 448–453.
Rumbold, John Mark Michael and Barbara
Pierscionek. 2017. The effect of the general
data protection regulation on medical
research. Journal of medical Internet research,
19(2):e47.
Samarati, Pierangela. 2001. Protecting
respondents’ identities in microdata
release. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and
Data Engineering, 13(6):1010–1027.
Samarati, Pierangela and Latanya Sweeney.
1998. Protecting Privacy when Disclosing
Information: k-Anonymity and its
Enforcement through Generalization and
Suppression. Technical report, SRI
International.
Sánchez, David and Montserrat Batet. 2016.
C-sanitized: A privacy model for
document redaction and sanitization.
Journal of the Association for Information
Science and Technology, 67(1):148–163.
Sánchez, David and Montserrat Batet. 2017.
Toward sensitive document release with
privacy guarantees. Engineering
Applications of Artificial Intelligence,
59:23–34.
Sánchez, David, Montserrat Batet, and
Alexandre Viejo. 2013. Minimizing the
disclosure risk of semantic correlations in
document sanitization. Information
Sciences, 249:110–123.
Santanen, Eric. 2019. The value of protecting
privacy. Business Horizons, 62(1):5–14.
Shokri, Reza, Marco Stronati, Congzheng
Song, and Vitaly Shmatikov. 2017.
Membership inference attacks against
machine learning models. In 2017 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP),
pages 3–18, IEEE.
Staddon, Jessica, Philippe Golle, and Bryce
Zimny. 2007. Web-Based Inference
Detection. In USENIX Security Symposium.
Stubbs, Amber, Michele Filannino, and
Özlem Uzuner. 2017. De-identification of
36
psychiatric intake records: Overview of
2016 CEGS N-GRID Shared Tasks Track 1.
Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 75:S4–S18.
Stubbs, Amber and Özlem Uzuner. 2015.
Annotating longitudinal clinical narratives
for de-identification: The 2014
i2b2/UTHealth corpus. Journal of
Biomedical Informatics, 58:S20–S29.
Sukthanker, Rhea, Soujanya Poria, Erik
Cambria, and Ramkumar
Thirunavukarasu. 2020. Anaphora and
coreference resolution: A review.
Information Fusion, 59:139–162.
Sweeney, Latanya. 1996. Replacing
personally-identifying information in
medical records, the scrub system. In
Proceedings of the AMIA annual fall
symposium, pages 333–337, American
Medical Informatics Association.
Trieu, Lap Q., Trung-Nguyen Tran,
Mai-Khiem Tran, and Minh-Triet Tran.
2017. Document Sensitivity Classification
for Data Leakage Prevention with
Twitter-Based Document Embedding and
Query Expansion. In Proceedings of the 13th
International Conference on Computational
Intelligence and Security, pages 537–542.
Vartanian, Arik and Asaf Shabtai. 2014.
Tm-score: A misuseability weight measure
for textual content. IEEE Transactions on
Information Forensics and Security,
9(12):2205–2219.
Velupillai, Sumithra, Hercules Dalianis,
Martin Hassel, and Gunnar H. Nilsson.
2009. Developing a standard for
de-identifying electronic patient records
written in Swedish: Precision, recall and
f -measure in a manual and computerized
annotation trial. International Journal of
Medical Informatics, 78(12):19 – 26.
Weischedel, Ralph, Eduard Hovy, Marcus.
Mitchell, Palmer Martha S., Robert Belvin,
Sameer S. Pradhan, Lance Ramshaw, and
Nianwen Xue. 2011. OntoNotes: A large
training corpus for enhanced processing.
In Handbook of Natural Language Processing
and Machine Translation: DARPA Global
Autonomous Language Exploitation,
Springer.
Weitzenboeck, Emily, Pierre Lison,
Malgorzata Agnieszka Cyndecka, and
Malcolm Langford. 2022. The GDPR and
unstructured data: is anonymization
possible? International Data Privacy Law.
Westin, Alan F. 1967. Privacy and Freedom.
Atheneum, New York.
Xu, Qiongkai, Lizhen Qu, Chenchen Xu, and
Ran Cui. 2019. Privacy-aware text
rewriting. In Proceedings of the 12thIldikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
International Conference on Natural Language
Generation, pages 247–257, Association for
Computational Linguistics, Tokyo, Japan.
Yang, Hui and Jonathan M. Garibaldi. 2015.
Automatic detection of protected health
information from clinic narratives. Journal
of Biomedical Informatics, 58:30 – 38.
Yogarajan, Vithya, Michael Mayo, and
Bernhard Pfahringer. 2018. A survey of
automatic de-identification of longitudinal
clinical narratives. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1810.06765.
37Disagreements between annotators
Figure 4 shows disagreement on entity types in terms of label mismatch. The most
frequent disagreements occurred between DEM and ORG, often when an organization
name also reveals demographic information, for example, naval police, Church of Ireland.
The annotation of the entity Ombudsman was found to be particularly challenging, as
depending on the context and interpretation, these could fall into not only DEM and
ORG, but also PERSON. We can also observe some disagreements between DEM and
MISC, especially for entities that did not fall into a clear demographic group (e.g. high
security prisoner, widower). Disagreements between LOC and ORG (Ireland, Municipality
of Göteborg) are less unexpected due to the inherent ambiguity of those two categories,
which have been found to also trigger mixed annotator judgments in NER tasks.
Figure 4
Heatmap for entity type disagreements (number of entity mentions with label mismatch).
Table 12 presents the number and the proportion of masking disagreements per
entity type for entity mentions. We consider in this table only masking disagreements
with exact span match. Moreover, the same type of disagreement for the same mention
by more than one annotator pair was counted only once. The unique types of dis-
agreement counted this way were in total 4299. Most disagreements were between the
NO_MASK and QUASI labels for ORG, DATETIME, DEM and LOC entities. Approximately
5% of masking disagreements were between the labels DIRECT and QUASI, mostly for
the PERSON and CODE entities. There were no disagreements between DIRECT and
NO_MASK labels for identical spans with the same entity label.
38Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
Table 12
Disagreement on identifier type, factored by entity type. The numbers of parenthesis denote the
percentage of mentions marked by two annotators that have this type of disagreement.
Entity typeDIRECT vs. QUASIDIRECT vs. NO_MASKQUASI vs. NO_MASK
CODE
DATETIME
DEM
LOC
MISC
ORG
PERSON
QUANTITY65 (1.5)
16 (0.4)
0 (0.0)
0 (0.0)
0 (0.0)
5 (0.1)
151 (3.5)
0 (0.0)
2370 (0.0)
0 (0.0)
0 (0.0)
0 (0.0)
0 (0.0)
0 (0.0)
0 (0.0)
0 (0.0)
0 (0.0)70 (1.6)
1000 (23.3)
497 (11.6)
416 (9.7)
158 (3.7)
1068 (24.8)
752 (17.5)
101 (2.4)
4062
Total
Example of document
After Step 1 (entity detection):
PROCEDURE
The case originated in an application (no. 19840/09) against the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland lodged with the Court under Article 34 of the Convention for the
Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (“the Convention”) by a British national,
Mr Harry Shindler (“the applicant”), on 26 March 2009.
The applicant was represented by Ms C. Oliver, a lawyer practising in Rome. The United
Kingdom Government (“the Government”) were represented by their Agent, Mr D. Walton, of
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
The applicant alleged that his disenfranchisement as a result of his residence outside the
United Kingdom constituted a violation of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention, taken
alone and taken together with Article 14, and Article 2 of Protocol No. 4 to the Convention.
On 14 December 2010 the application was communicated to the Government. It was also
decided to rule on the admissibility and merits of the application at the same time (Article 29 § 1).
39THE FACTS
I. THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE CASE
The applicant was born in 1921 and lives in Ascoli Piceno, Italy. He left the United Kingdom
in 1982 following his retirement and moved to Italy with his wife, an Italian national.
Pursuant to primary legislation, British citizens residing overseas for less than fifteen years
are permitted to vote in parliamentary elections in the United Kingdom (see paragraphs 10-11
below). The applicant does not meet the fifteen-year criterion and is therefore not entitled to vote.
In particular, he was unable to vote in the general election of 5 May 2010.
After Step 2 (masking decisions):
PROCEDURE
The case originated in an application (no. .............. ) against the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland lodged with the Court under Article 34 of the Convention for
the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (“the Convention”) by a ..............
national, .............. (“the applicant”), on .............. .
The applicant was represented by .............. , a lawyer practising in .............. . The United
Kingdom Government (“the Government”) were represented by their Agent, .............. , of the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
The applicant alleged that his disenfranchisement as a result of his residence outside the
United Kingdom constituted a violation of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention, taken
alone and taken together with Article 14, and Article 2 of Protocol No. 4 to the Convention.
On .............. the application was communicated to the Government. It was also decided to
rule on the admissibility and merits of the application at the same time (Article 29 § 1).
40Ildikó Pilán et al.
The Text Anonymization Benchmark (TAB)
THE FACTS
I. THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE CASE
The applicant was born in .............. and lives in .............. . He left the United Kingdom in
.............. following his retirement and moved to .............. with his wife, an .............. national.
Pursuant to primary legislation, British citizens residing overseas for less than fifteen years
are permitted to vote in parliamentary elections in the United Kingdom (see paragraphs 10-11
below). The applicant does not meet the fifteen-year criterion and is therefore not entitled to vote.
In particular, he was unable to vote in the general election of 5 May 2010.
41Annotation Guidelines
This text provides annotation guidelines for the anonymisation of human rights court rulings
with the Tagtog tool. Please read the instructions below carefully.
You are given a collection of court cases (in a directory with your name), each associated with
the name of a specific individual to anonymise from the case. The goal of your annotation is to
mark all text spans (= a continuous stretch of one or more words) that correspond to an entity of
a certain category and, afterwards indicate whether they can be used to re-identify the individual
to be protected.
The data has been pre-annotated automatically. Your annotation work consists of four stages:
•
•
•
•
Step 0: Read through the entire case once
Step 1: Entities. Taking the pre-annotations as a starting point, annotate each entity with
a semantic type (PERSON, CODE, LOC, ORG, DEM, DATETIME, QUANTITY, MISC,
see below). You need to remove/correct errors in the pre-annotated entities, and
manually annotate entities that went undetected.
Step 2: Masking. For each entity annotated in Step 1, specify whether their identifier
type (direct identifier, quasi-identifier, or does not need masking) and their confidential
status. See below for detailed definitions of these terms.
Step 3: Final review. Save and confirm your annotation, and inspect the review
document generated in your masked subfolder to ensure you have not missed any
identifier or confidential attribute. Otherwise, go back to Step 1 or 2.
Step 1: Entities
Step 1 focuses on annotating entities with semantic types. To facilitate your task, we provide pre-
annotations generated automatically. Those pre-annotations are just a starting point, and are far from
perfect: you must actively seek to correct and extend the annotation. This means that you should
always:
1. Verify whether each pre-annotated entity is correct or needs to be removed or edited
(either because it is the wrong type, or whether the span should be changed).
2. Manually annotate each entity that was not detected by the automatic tool. For some
categories such as DEM or MISC, the automatic tool will only detect a small fraction of
the entities, so you should expect to find some in every document.
3. If two mentions refer to the same underlying entity but have a different string (e.g. "John
Smith" and "Mr. Smith"), insert a reference relation between them (see below).
For Step 1, you do not need to worry about re-identification risks (this will come in Step 2), you
just need to mark all entities pertaining to one of the provided categories.
Entities that occur several times through a document are visually marked in TagTog with a
yellow border for all mentions except the first one (to indicate that the subsequent mentions are
"derived" from the first one). When an entity needs to be corrected or removed, you shouldtherefore apply your changes on the first mention - this way, your changes will be automatically
propagated to all mentions, without having to repeat your corrections one by one.
The list of categories is presented below. If the information does not fit within one of these, the
MISC category should be used.
CategoryDescription
PERSONNames of people, including nicknames/aliases, usernames and initials
CODENumbers and codes that identify something, such as SSN, phone number,
passport number, license plate
Places and locations, such as:
LOC
•
•
•
Cities, areas, countries, etc.
Addresses
Named infrastructures (bus stops, bridges, etc.)
Names of organisations, such as:
ORG
•
•
public and private companies
schools, universities, public institutions, prisons, healthcare institutions
non-governmental organisations, churches, etc.
Demographic attribute of a person, such as:
DEM
•
•
•
Native language, descent, heritage, ethnicity
Job titles, ranks, education
Physical descriptions, diagnosis, birthmarks, ages
DATETIMEDescription of a specific date (e.g. October 3, 2018), time (e.g. 9:48 AM) or
duration (e.g. 18 years).
QUANTITYDescription of a meaninful quantity, e.g. percentages or monetary values.
MISCEvery other type of information that describes an individual and that does not
belong to the categories above
Examples
In general, annotation should mark the minimal span which denotes the entity or property in
question.
PERSON
For person names the annotation should include titles and honorifics, such as Mr., Dr., etc. since
these may contribute to the precise identification of an individual.•
•
Mr Gestur Jónsson and Mr Ragnar Halldór Hall
Mr and Mrs Smith
Some examples which are regarded as names:
•
•
•
•
Names: E.g., ‘Harry Hole’, 'Hole', 'Harry'
Initials: E.g. 'H.H.'
Spelling mistakes: E.g. 'Hary Hole'
All orthographic variations E.g. 'harry hole', 'Harry HOLE'
NB: The name of a person can be both a direct identifier (if it is the full name of the individual to
protect) or a quasi-identifier (if it is the name of another related person).
CODE
Includes ID-numbers and codes, in particular numbers and codes that identify something, such
as SSN, phone number, passport number, license plate, report identifiers etc. Codes can be either
identifiers or quasi-identifiers, according to whether they unequivocally refer to the individual to
protect or not.
•
an application (no. 42552/98)
LOC
Includes cities, areas, counties, addresses, as well as other geographical places, buildings and
facilities. Other examples are airports, churches, restaurants, hotels, tourist attractions, hospitals,
shops, street addresses, roads, oceans, fjords, mountains, parks.
•
•
Reykjavik
Øvregaten 2a, 5003 Bergen
Include numbers when they are part of the entity name:
•
•
Pilestredet 48(LOC)
Rema 1000(ORG)
Always annotate the whole name, never nested parts.
Annotate like this:
•
Høgskolen i Oslo og Akershus(ORG)
And not like this:
•
Høgskolen i Oslo(LOC) og Akershus(LOC)
Separate entities connected with a conjunction (e.g. ‘and’) should be annotated separately:
•
Pamir and Alay valleys(LOC)In case an entity could be either ORG or LOC (e.g. Turkey or Breitvet prison), the entity type best
describing the referent should be chosen, i.e. ORG if the occurrence refers to the institution itself,
and LOC if it refers to a geographic location.
ORG
Includes any named collection of people, businesses, institutions, organizations, universities,
hospitals, churches, sports teams, unions, political parties etc.
Corporate designators like AS, Co. and Ltd. are to be included as part of the name.
Translations and acronyms are included in the span, e.g.
•
KCK (Koma Civakên Kurdistan – “Kurdistan Communities Union”)
Definite or indefinite articles are typically not included in the span, unless explicitly part of the
entity (as for titles of books and movies, such as “The Great Gatsby”).
•
•
•
•
The Supreme Court’s Appeals Leave Committee
A ship from the East India Company
Istanbul public prosecutor’s office
Istanbul police
DEM
These are demographic properties and include both physical, cultural and
occupational/educational properties, such as various physical descriptions, diagnosis, native
language, ethnicity, job titles, age, etc.
•
•
•
•
•
40 years old
the applicants are journalists
a group of left-wing extremists
diagnosed with motor neurone disease
a Polish and naturalized-French physicist
Pronouns (he, she) should not be annotated to protect gender information.
DATETIME
Prepositions (e.g. on, at) should not be included in the span.
•
•
•
Monday, October 3, 2018
at 9:48 AM
born in 1947
Separate entities connected by "and" should be annotated separately:
•
10 March and 12 of March
Except if they partially overlap:
•
10 and 12 of MarchQUANTITY
Units, such as currencies, should be included in the span.
•
•
•
•
$37.5 million
375 euros
4267 SEK
1000 Kilos
MISC
Other (quasi-)identifying words such as trademarks, products, events, etc. All things artificially
produced are regarded products. This may include more abstract entities, such as speeches,
radio shows, programming languages, contracts, laws and even ideas (if they are named).
Brands are products when they refer to a product or a line of products, but organisation when
they refer to the acting or producing entity.
•
Criminal investigation into the death of the applicant's son
Exceptions
The main goal of Step 1 is to find all entities related to categories described above (without
worring about whether they need to be masked or not, since this is the goal of Step 2). However,
there are some entities that are technically part of those categories, but are so obviously
irrelevant to the task that they can be safely ignored.
Here are some concrete exceptions you can ignore:
•
•
profession or title of the legal professionals involved in the case (for instance "solicitor",
"legal adviser", "lawyer", etc.)
parts of generic legal references (such as the year a particular law was passed or
published).
If you find other exceptions you think would be useful to add to this list, let us know!
Relations
Finally, if some text spans are referring to the same underlying entity through different mentions
(such as “John Smith” and “Mr Smith”, or “Republic of Turkey” and “Turkey”), annotate those
referential relations. More precisely:
•
•
a. Find an occurrence of the first mention (such as “John Smith”) and click “add relation”
b. Find an occurrence of the second mention (such as “Mr Smith”) and click on it. You
should now see a relation between the two.
You do not need to add “same_as” relations between entities with the exact same string. It is also
sufficient to annotate the relation once, even though there may be several occurrences of both
mentions.
Step 2: MaskingIn this stage of the annotation, you should review all text spans marked in Step 1, and specify
whether they need to be masked (either as a DIRECT or QUASI identifier) to protect the identity
of the individual specified in the annotation task. You should mark all direct and quasi
identifiers but not more than those (we still wish to retain as much textual content as possible).
For every entity annotated during stage 1, you should set the correct value for the following two
labels:
1. identifier_type
•
•
•
DIRECT_ID (direct identifiers): text spans that directly and unequivocally identify the
individual to protect) in the case and should therefore be masked.
QUASI_ID (quasi-identifiers): text spans that should be masked since they may lead to
the re-identification of the individual when combined with other (not masked) quasi-
identifiers mentioned in the text along with public background knowledge.
NO_MASK: entities that are neither of the above, and should therefore not need to be
masked. Most entities will belong to this category. Start by applying NO_MASK to
the least precise/specific quasi-identifiers in the court case first.
2. confidential_status
If the information is also confidential, that is, it describes religious or philosophical
beliefs, political opinions, trade union membership, sexual orientation or sex life, racial
or ethnic origin, health data, genetic and biometric data, specify the category (BELIEF,
POLITICS, SEX, ETHNIC, HEALTH) or NOT_CONFIDENTIAL if it is not confidential.
Note that the "Confidential Status" label is only available for a subset of entity types for which
we can except confidential information.
We recommend you use TagTog's Document review mode (press r) to easily go through all
entities one by one without having to click on anything. When deciding on the identifier type
and confidential status of an entity, make sure you select the first mention - this way, your
decision will be automatically propagated to all subsequent mentions of that same entity (shown
with a yellow border on TagTog).
Direct identifiers
= text spans that contain information that directly and unequivocally identify the individual to
be protected.
Examples: person names (including nicknames/aliases and usernames), social security numbers,
passport numbers.
Quasi-identifiers
= Information that, in isolation, does not identify the individual to be protected but can do so, in
combination with other quasi-identifiers and background knowledge. These will often refer to
demographical (“a 72-years old man”) or spatiotemporal attributes (“on February 6 in Sevilla”).
For instance, the combination of date of birth, gender and profession will typically allow you to
find out the identity of a person.
For a re-identification to be possible, quasi-identifiers must refer to some information that can be
seen as potential “publicly available knowledge” — i.e. something that we can expect that anexternal person may already know on the individual or may be able to find —, and the
combination of quasi-identifying information should be enough to re-identify the individual
with no or low ambiguity. You should judge whether it is likely that someone could, based on
public knowledge, know the quasi-identifying values of the individual to be protected. There is
some room for interpretation here, but the annotator should ask themselves the question: if I
wanted to find out the identify of the individual in the document, should I expect to be able to
connect those pieces of information with some other knowledge sources (such as news articles,
social media, census data, etc.)? and, are those pieces of information enough to re-identify the
individual with no or low ambiguity? In the vast majority of cases, you don’t actually need to do any
search for those knowledge sources, your intuition will suffice.
What do we mean by "publicly available knowledge"? In practice, anything that can be found by
searching on the web. With one exception: since the texts come from the ECHR, what we
consider "publicly available knowledge" should not include the HUDOC database itself (or
derived knowledge bases) -- otherwise we would need to consider virtually every word in the
text as quasi-identifiers, since it would be straightforward to do a quick search on HUDOC to
find the original court case and find out the identify of the individual.
As a rule of thumb, immutable personal attributes (e.g., date-of-birth) on an individual that can
be known by external entities should be considered quasi-identifiers. Circumstantial attributes
may be considered quasi-identifiers or not according to the chance that external entities may
know such information (e.g., current place-of-living or a hospital admission date could be, but
the number of times one has gone to the grocery store in a week may not).
Usually, only very general attribute values that encompass a large number of individuals (e.g.,
country-of-birth) may be ignored, since they would match a large population of individuals and
would not enable a unequivocal re-identification. This also depends on the presence of other
quasi-identifiers within the same document: the larger the amount and the more concrete the
information they provide, the larger the chance that they may enable re-identifications.
Confidential attributes
= Information is such that, if disclosed, could harm or could be a source of discrimination for the
individual.
For confidential attributes, the categories of information to be protected are:
CategoryDescription
BELIEFReligious or philosophical beliefs
POLITICSPolitical opinions, trade union membership
SEXSexual orientation or sex life
ETHNICRacial or ethnic origin
HEALTHHealth, genetic and biometric data. This includes sensitive health-
related habits, such as substance abuseNOT_CONFIDENTIAL
Not confidential information (most entities)
Step 3: Final Review
Save and confirm your annotation. After saving the document, a new "review" document should
be now be available in your subfolder masked. For instance, if your document lies in the
path annotator1/001-87407, a new document should now appear at annotator1/masked/001-
87407_review. (if that's not the case, let us know)
This document shows which entity will end up being masked in an anonymised version of the
court case. Direct identifiers and quasi-identifiers are now replaced by *****. Confidential
attributes are shown in clear text but marked as entity. Inspect the text to ensure you haven't
forgotten any (direct or quasi) identifier or confidential attributes. Otherwise, go back to step 1
and 2 and repeat the process.
Quality check
You will perform a quality check in pairs to review each other's annotations. The procedure to
follow is relatively simple: For every confirmed document from your teammate, do the following:
1. Read the "review" document carefully
2. Try to answer the question: Is the masking as sufficient to conceal the identity of the
person? If in doubt, try to re-identify the person by googling around (but again ignoring
the ECHR case itself from what you should consider publicly available knowledge)
3. Go to the "main" document, and check for mistakes/omissions in the annotations. Such
mistakes could correspond to missing spans, wrong span boundaries, wrong semantic
categories, wrong masking decisions, or wrong/absent confidential status.
4. For "obvious" mistakes or omissions (for which there is no room for multiple
interpretations), you can directly edit the annotations to add the corrections
5. For more substantial disagreements where you would have made a different decision
than your teammate, note down your disagreement
6. Once you are done reviewing a bulk of court cases, schedule a meeting with your
teammate to discuss those disagreements, and reach a final decision by consensus
7. Apply the final edits to the main document
8. Click on confirm on both the main document and the review document (as a way of
marking that the review of that document is complete)